Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Our Online Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report - financial year 2024-25 BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to share our Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report  BRSR  for the financial year 2024-25. This report aims to update you of our sustainability performance driven by our efforts to create a positive impact on the environment and society. Sustainability Embedded In Our Strategy Our new strategy, ASPIRE  Unlocking a Billion Aspirations, aims to unlock growth for the business and is underlined by the key pillar of sustainability. We have been driving an ambitious sustainability agenda for decades. Yet, in the face of ever-growing economic, environmental, and social challenges, we are evolving our approach. Now is the time to focus on delivering impact by making sustainability progress integral to business performance. We will continue to focus on four sustainability priorities  Climate, Nature, Plastics, and Livelihoods. We will be scaling our proven models across these pillars to create a larger impact. We truly believe that embracing sustainability is the only way for businesses to remain relevant in the future. Accelerating ESG Leadership At HUL, we have made significant progress against our ESG  Environmental, Social, and Governance  Goals. In our manufacturing operations, we have reduced our CO2 emissions by 99%  per tonne of production , water usage by 50%  cubic meter per tonne of production , and total waste generated from our factories by 62%  per tonne of production  in financial year 2024-25 compared to the 2008 baseline. We are targeting net zero emissions across Scope 1, 2, and 3 by 2039. While we are well placed to deliver on Scope 1   2 emissions, we are relentlessly working on achieving our commitment on Scope 3 by 2039. This includes working closely with our biggest suppliers across all our categories. As a founding member of the Resource Efficiency and Circular Economy Industry Coalition  RECEIC , we aim to meet Net Zero commitments by addressing the use of sustainable raw materials through industry-wide action and government support. Doing Well By Doing Good On our journey towards building plastic circularity through our Program Project Circular Bharat we have developed a decentralised financially viable model that works in the areas of Behaviour change, Social inclusion of waste workers, and Infrastructure development. We partner with multiple government bodies, other corporates such as SBI Foundation, and organisations such as UNDP and Xynteo on our plastic initiatives. Last year we launched Project Circular India Toolkit, a first-of-its-kind awareness-to- action toolkit which will help replicate the change across the ecosystem along with the Ministry of Environment, Forests,   Climate Change  MoEFCC . To play our part in securing the future of water we continue to build water conservation potential and enhance water- dependent livelihoods through the Hindustan Unilever Foundation and its partners. Since 2010, we have enabled creation of a cumulative water conservation potential of over 3.9 trillion litres.Suvidha, our pioneering model of urban hygiene and sanitation centre today serves 5,00,000 people in Mumbai. Our first centre was set up in a slum in Mumbai in 2016 in partnership with the BMC to serve 2,000 people annually. We have now scaled it up to 20 centres across Mumbai in partnership with the government, HSBC India, and JSW Foundation. We have also signed a Memorandum of Understanding  MoU  with Ministry of Housing   Urban Affairs  MoHUA  to provide innovation   design expertise to build climate  resilient sanitation models for Urban India. Not just the environment, but we have also been working towards creating a positive social impact. Project Shakti, launched at the dawn of the new millennium with the vision of empowering women in rural areas, has been a resounding success. It has been 11 years since we started Prabhat, our sustainable community development initiative aimed at improving livelihoods, health, and nutrition as well as protecting the environment. Since its inception, Prabhat has positively benefitted 11 million lives across 12 states and 2 union territories. Building For The Future Sustainability has always been ingrained in the way we do our business and not just a separate initiative. This is because we truly believe that sustainable practices can drive innovation, reduce costs, enhance brand reputation, and create long-term value for shareholders. We have come a long way in our sustainability journey and going forward we will require bold and decisive leadership to make a meaningful difference. Rohit Jawa Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director 01 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Executive Summary At Hindustan Unilever Limited  HUL , our Business Responsibility   Sustainability Report adheres to the nine principles of the SEBI framework on sustainability reporting, informing stakeholders of our sustainability endeavours. HUL is dedicated to sustainable growth by providing products that meet consumer needs while minimising environmental impact. Our ESG Committee, constituted in 2022, oversees ESG strategy and performance, ensuring alignment with the companys purpose and progress towards the ESG Goals. We are evolving our approach to make sustainability progress integral to business performance, focusing on delivering impact. Our continued focus will be on four sustainability priorities  Climate, Nature, Plastics, and Livelihoods. Aligned to our Sustainability Goals HUL demonstrates its Key ESG Focus AreasBusiness Responsibility and Sustainability Report Climate PlasticsNature Livelihood HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED 02 Contents 04 Independent Practitioners Reasonable and Limited Assurance Report 10 Section A General disclosures 20 Section B Management and process disclosures 26 Section C Principle wise performance disclosure PRINCIPLE 5 48 Businesses should respect and promote human rights PRINCIPLE 6 54 Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment PRINCIPLE 1 26 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent, and accountable PRINCIPLE 2 30 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe PRINCIPLE 3 36 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains PRINCIPLE 4 44 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders PRINCIPLE 7 66 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent PRINCIPLE 8 68 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development PRINCIPLE 9 72 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner 03 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability ReportIndependent Practitioners Reasonable and Limited Assurance Report To the Board of Directors of Hindustan Unilever Limited Assurance report on select sustainability disclosures in the Annual Report Assurance report on select sustainability disclosures in the Annual Report prepared in accordance with the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting  BRSR  framework  called Identified Sustainability Information  ISI   of Hindustan Unilever Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries  together called as HUL Group or the Company  for the period from 1st April, 2024 to 31st March, 2025 Reasonable Assurance Opinion and Limited Assurance Conclusion We have performed an assurance engagement on the Identified Sustainability Information  ISI  as detailed in the table below   Identified Sustainability Information subject to assurancePeriod subject to assurance Level of assurance Reporting criteria BRSR Core Attributes  Refer to Appendix A From 1st April, 2024 to 31st March, 2025Reasonable assurance Regulation 34 2  f  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  SEBI  Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements  SEBI LODR   Guidance note for BRSR format issued by SEBI  Greenhouse Gas  GHG  Protocol  A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard   Revised  developed by World Resources Institute  WRI    World Business Council for Sustainable Development  WBCSD  Select sustainability disclosures in the BRSR Report  which are not part of the BRSR Core   refer Appendix B From 1st April, 2024 to 31st March, 2025Limited Assurance Regulation 34 2  f  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  SEBI  Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements  SEBI LODR   Guidance note for BRSR format issued by SEBI This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including assurance practitioners, engineers, environmental and social professionals. For the purposes of the remainder of our assurance report   Information covered by Reasonable Assurance refers to the Identified Sustainability Information identified above that was covered by reasonable assurance   Information covered by Limited Assurance refers to the Identified Sustainability Information identified above that was covered by limited assurance   Assured Sustainability Information refers to all Identified Sustainability Information covered by assurance  both reasonable assurance and limited assurance   and  Applicable Criteria refers to the reporting criteria relevant to the information covered by assurance as identified above. Reasonable assurance opinion In our opinion, the HUL Groups Information covered by Reasonable Assurance in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for the period from 1st April, 2024 to 31st March, 2025, is prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Regulation 34 2  f  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  SEBI  Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements  SEBI LODR  and the Greenhouse Gas  GHG  Protocol  A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard   Revised  developed by World Resources Institute  WRI    World Business Council for Sustainable Development  WBCSD  and the Reporting Boundary as set out in Section A  General Disclosures 13 of the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report. Limited assurance conclusion Based on the procedures performed and evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention to cause us to believe that the HUL Groups Information covered by Limited Assurance in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report  which are not part of the BRSR Core  relating to the BRSR attributes for the period from 1st April, 2024 to 31st March, 2025, is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Regulation 34 2   f  of the Securities and Exchange Board of India  SEBI  Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements  SEBI LODR  and the Reporting Boundary as set out in Section A  General Disclosures 13 of the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report. Basis for opinion and conclusion We conducted our engagement in accordance with Standard on Sustainability Assurance Engagements  SSAE  3000, Assurance Engagements on Sustainability Information and SAE 3410 Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements issued by the Sustainability Reporting Standards Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India  ICAI . Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Our responsibilities section of our report. We are required to comply with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI. 04 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED Our firm applies Standard on Quality Control  SQC  1, Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements issued by the ICAI. This standard requires the firm to design, implement and operate a system of quality management, including policies or procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our reasonable assurance opinion and limited assurance conclusion. Other information Management and the Board of Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Companys Annual Report  but does not include the BRSR attributes and assurance report thereon . The Companys Annual Report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this assurance report. Our reasonable and limited assurance on ISI does not cover the other information and we are not expressing any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our assurance on the ISI, our responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it becomes available, and in doing so, consider whether other information is materially inconsistent with the ISI, or our knowledge obtained in the assurance, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. When we read the annual report, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance and describe actions applicable under the applicable laws and regulations. Other Matter The reporting boundary of the ISI in the BRSR attached herewith is based on the sustainability information for entities considered for preparation of consolidated financial statements, other than two partly owned subsidiaries and a joint venture. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, the sustainability information relating to these entities is not qualitatively and quantitatively material for the BRSR. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Intended use or purpose The ISI and our reasonable and limited assurance report are intended for users who have reasonable knowledge of the BRSR attributes, the reporting criteria and ISI and who have read the information in the ISI with reasonable diligence and understand that the ISI is prepared and assured at appropriate levels of materiality. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.Managements responsibilities for Assured Sustainability Information The management of the Company are responsible for   designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation of the Assured Sustainability Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error   selecting or developing suitable criteria for preparing the Assured Sustainability Information and appropriately referring to or describing the criteria   preparing fairly stating properly calculating the Assured Sustainability Information in accordance with the Applicable Criteria   ensuring the reporting criteria is available for the intended users with relevant explanation   establishing targets, goals and other performance measures, and implementing actions to achieve such targets, goals and performance measures   providing the details of the management personnel who takes ownership of the ISI disclosed in the report   ensuring compliance with law, regulation or applicable contracts   making judgements and estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances   identifying and describing any inherent limitations in the measurement or evaluation of information covered by assurance in accordance with the reporting criteria   preventing and detecting fraud   selecting the content of the ISI, including identifying and engaging with intended users to understand their information needs   informing us of other information that will be included with the ISI   supervision of other staff involved in the preparation of the ISI  and Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the reporting process for the Companys Assured Sustainability Information. Inherent limitations The preparation of the HUL Groups BRSR information requires the management to establish or interpret the criteria, make determinations about the relevancy of information to be included, and make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported information. Measurement of certain amounts and BRSR attributes, some of which are estimates, is subject to substantial inherent measurement uncertainty, for example GHG emissions, water footprint, energy footprint. Obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to support our opinion  conclusion does not reduce the uncertainty in the amounts and metrics. The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measures and measurement techniques and can affect comparability between entities. 05 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability ReportOur responsibilities We are responsible for   Planning and performing the engagement to obtain a reasonable assurance and limited assurance on the Assured Sustainability Information about whether the ISI is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error   forming an independent reasonable assurance opinion and limited assurance conclusion, based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained  and  reporting reasonable assurance opinion and limited assurance conclusion to the Board of Directors of HUL. Summary of the work we performed as the basis for our opinion conclusion We exercised professional judgement and maintained professional skepticism throughout the engagement. We designed and performed our procedures to obtain evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our reasonable assurance opinion and limited assurance conclusion. Reasonable assurance opinion The nature, timing, and extent of the procedures selected depended on our judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the information covered by reasonable assurance, whether due to fraud or error. We identified and assessed the risks of material misstatement through understanding the information covered by reasonable assurance and the engagement circumstances. We also obtained an understanding of the internal control relevant to the information covered by reasonable assurance in order to design procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal controls. In carrying out our engagement, we   assessed the suitability of the criteria used by the entity in preparing the reasonable assurance information   evaluated the appropriateness of reporting policies, quantification methods and models used in the preparation of the information covered by reasonable assurance and the reasonableness of estimates made by the entity  and  evaluated the overall presentation of the information covered by reasonable assurance. Limited assurance conclusion Our procedures selected depended on our understanding of the information covered by limited assurance and other engagement circumstances, and our consideration of areas where material misstatements are likely to arise. In carrying out our engagement, we   assessed the suitability of the criteria used by the entity in preparing the information covered by limited assurance   interviewed senior management and relevant staff at corporate and selected locations concerning policies for environmental, social and occupational health and safety, and the implementation of these across the business  through inquiries, obtained an understanding of the Companys control environment, processes and information systems relevant to the preparation of the information covered by limited assurance, but did not evaluate the design of particular control activities, obtain evidence about their implementation or test their operating effectiveness   made inquiries of relevant staff at corporate and selected locations responsible for the preparation of the Information covered by limited assurance   undertook site visits at 5 plants of HUL Group and Corporate office  we selected these sites based on the relative size of the GHG emissions, water footprint, energy footprint of these locations to the total and unexpected fluctuations in the information covered by limited assurance since the prior period   inspected, at each site visited, a limited number of items to or from supporting records, as appropriate   applied analytical procedures, as appropriate   recalculated the information covered by limited assurance based on the criteria  and  evaluated the overall presentation of the information covered by limited assurance to determine whether it is consistent with the criteria and in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the Companys occupational health and safety. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Exclusions  Our assurance scope excludes the following and therefore we will not express an opinion  a conclusion on the same   The HUL Groups statements that describe the strategy, progress on goals  other than those listed under the scope of assurance , expression of opinion, claims, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim to future intention provided by the Company   The statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim, or future intentions provided by the Company   Operations of the HUL Group other than those mentioned in the Scope of Assurance   Aspects of the BRSR attributes and the data information  qualitative or quantitative  other than the ISI  and  Data and information outside the defined reporting period from 1st April, 2024 to 31st March, 2025. For B S R   Co. LLP Chartered Accountants Firm registration No. 101248W W-100022 Aniruddha Godbole Partner Membership No  105149 ICAI UDIN  25105149BMLWYN6113 06 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED Appendix  A Appendix A  BRSR Core attributes - Reasonable assurance for financial year 2024-25 Sr. No. BRSR Core Indicator Description of Indicator 1 Section C  Principle 1  E8 Number of days of accounts payable 2 Section C  Principle 1  E9 Concentration of purchases   sales done with trading houses, dealers, and related parties Loans and advances   investments with related parties 3 Section C  Principle 3  E1 c  Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers  cost incurred as a % of total revenue of the company 4 Section C  Principle 3  E11 Details of safety related incidents including lost time injury frequency rate, recordable work-related injuries, no. of fatalities 5 Section C  Principle 5  E3 b  Gross wages paid to females as % of wages paid 6 Section C  Principle 5  E7 Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace  Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal  Act, 2013, including complaints reported, complaints as a % of female employees, and complaints upheld 7 Section C  Principle 6  E1 Details of total energy consumption  in Joules or multiples  and its intensity 8 Section C  Principle 6  E3 Total volume of water withdrawal by source and water consumption in Kilolitres and its intensity 9 Section C  Principle 6  E4 Water discharge by destination and level of treatment  in kilolitres  10 Section C  Principle 6  E7 Details of greenhouse gas emissions  Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions  and its intensity 11 Section C  Principle 6  E9 Details related to waste generated by category, waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations, waste disposed by nature of disposal method and its intensity 12 Section C  Principle 8  E4 Input material sourced from following sources as % of total purchases  Directly sourced from MSMEs  small producers and from within India 13 Section C  Principle 8  E5 Job creation in smaller towns  Wages paid to persons employed in smaller towns  permanent or non-permanent  on contract  as % of total wage cost 14 Section C  Principle 9  E7 Instances involving loss   breach of data of customers as a percentage of total data breaches or cyber security events 07 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability ReportAppendix B  BRSR attributes  not part of BRSR Core  - Limited assurance for financial year 2024-25 Sr. No.BRSR Indicator reference  E indicates Essential Indicator   L indicates Leadership Indicator  Description of Indicator 1 Section A  20a Employees and workers  including differently abled  2 Section A  20b Differently abled Employees and workers 3 Section A  21 Participation Inclusion Representation of women in BoD  KMP 4 Section A  22 Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers 5 Section A  25 Complaints Grievances on any of the principles  Principles 1 to 9  under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct 6 Section C  Principle 1  E1 Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year 7 Section C  Principle 1  E6 Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest 8 Section C  Principle 1  L1 Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year 9 Section C - Principle 2 - E2  b  What percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably   For Calendar Year 2024  10 Section C - Principle 2  L3 Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material  by value  used in production  for manufacturing industry  or providing services  for service industry  11 Section C  Principle 2  L4 Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount  in metric tonnes  reused, recycled, and safely disposed 12 Section C  Principle 2  L5 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials  as percentage of products sold  for each product category 13 Section C  Principle 3  E1 Details of measures for the well-being of employees and workers 14 Section C  Principle 3  E2 Details of retirement benefits, for Current financial year  excluding amounts deducted and deposited with the authority  15 Section C  Principle 3  E5 Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave 16 Section C  Principle 3  E7 Membership of employees and worker in association s  or Unions recognised by the listed entity 08 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED Sr. No.BRSR Indicator reference  E indicates Essential Indicator   L indicates Leadership Indicator  Description of Indicator 17 Section C  Principle 3  E8 Details of training given to employees and workers 18 Section C  Principle 3  E9 Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers 19 Section C  Principle 3  E13 Number of Complaints on working conditions   Health safety made by employees and workers 20 Section C  Principle 3  E14 Assessments for the year  Health and safety practices, Working Conditions  21 Section C  Principle 3  L3 Number of employees and workers having suffered high consequence work related injury   ill-health   fatalities, who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment 22 Section C  Principle 5  E1 Number of Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policies of the entity 23 Section C  Principle 5  E2 Details of minimum wages paid to employees and workers 24 Section C  Principle 5  E3 Details of remuneration salary wages on median remuneration 25 Section C  Principle 5  E6 Number of Complaints on  Sexual Harassment, Discrimination at workplace, Child Labour, Forced Labour Involuntary Labour, Wages and Other human rights related issues  made by employees and workers 26 Section C  Principle 5  E10 Percentage of your plants and offices that were assessed  by entity or statutory authorities or third parties  on Sexual Harassment, Discrimination at workplace, Child Labour, Forced Labour Involuntary Labour, Wages and Other human rights related issues. 27 Section C  Principle 6  E6 Details of air emissions  other than GHG emissions  by the entity 28 Section C  Principle 6  L1 Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress  in kilolitres  29 Section C  Principle 8  E2 Information on project s  for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement  R R  is being undertaken by your entity 30 Section C  Principle 9  E3 Number of consumer complaints in respect of Data Privacy, Advertising, Cyber- Security, Delivery of essential services, Restrictive Trade Practices, Unfair Trade Practices, Others 31 Section C  Principle 9  E4 Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues 09 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability ReportBusiness Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section A - GENERAL DISCLOSURES At HUL, we are committed to unlocking a billion aspirations by leveraging our core strengths, driving innovation, and building an unbeatable portfolio. Our focus on sustainability is at the heart of our strategy, ensuring we lead the way in environmental stewardship, responsible sourcing and reducing our carbon footprint. By integrating sustainable practices into every aspect of our operations, we aim to create a positive impact on the planet while delivering consistent performance and growth.  8,200 Employees  18,450 Workers100  Differently abled Employees and Workers  1,600 Women on Shopfloor 10 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED Our strategic priority is to unlock a billion aspirations, while aligning our business practices with the highest standards of sustainability and cutting-edge innovation. We are committed to embedding responsible business practices into our operational framework, thereby generating long-term value for our stakeholders and fostering environmental resilience. I DETAILS OF THE LISTED ENTITY S. No. Particulars Response 1 Corporate Identity Number  CIN  of the listed entity L15140MH1933PLC002030 2 Name of the listed entity Hindustan Unilever Limited 3 Year of incorporation 1933 4 Registered office addressUnilever House, B. D. Sawant Marg, Chakala, Andheri  East , Mumbai4000995 Corporate address 6 E-mail levercare.shareholder unilever.com 7 Telephone   91  0  022  5043 2790 32516 32754 8 Website www.hul.co.in 9 Financial year for which reporting is being done 1st April, 2024 to 31st March, 2025 10 Name of the stock exchange s  where shares are listedBSE Limited  National Stock Exchange of India Limited 11 Paid-up capital 235 crores 12 Name and contact details  telephone and email address  of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the BRSR reportName  Radhika Shah  Company Secretary Contact   91  0  022  5043 2790 32516 32754 Email  levercare.shareholder unilever.com 13 Reporting boundary  Are the disclosures under this Report made on a standalone basis  i.e., only for the entity  or on a consolidated basis  i.e., for the entity and all the entities that form part of its consolidated financial statements taken together  Disclosures under this Report are made on a consolidated basis covering wholly-owned subsidiaries  Refer table V-23.  a  for list of wholly-owned subsidiaries  14 Name of assessment or assurance provider M s B S R   Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants 15 Type of assessment or assurance obtained Reasonable assurance on BRSR Core parameters and Limited assurance on other parameters. Refer the Independent Practitioners Reasonable and Limited Assurance Report for list of Identified Sustainability Indicators covered under the assuranceRitesh Tiwari Executive Director, Finance   IT and Chief Financial Officer 11 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section A - GENERAL DISCLOSURESII PRODUCTS SERVICES II-16. Details of business activities  accounting for 90% of turnover   S. No. Description of the main activity Description of business activity Entity turnover  %  1 Manufacturing - FMCG Soaps, detergents, cosmetics   toiletries, and packaged foods100.0% II-17. Products services sold by the entity  accounting for 90% of the entitys turnover   S. No. Product service NIC code Total turnover contributed  %  1 Home Care 20233 Detergents 27501 Water purifiers 20239 Surface and bathroom cleaners36.8% 2 Beauty   Wellbeing 20236 Shampoos 20237 Cosmetics 96020 Hairdressing and other beauty treatment21.3% 3 Personal Care 20231 Soaps 20235 Toothpastes 20234 Deodorants 14.7% 4 Foods 10791 Tea 10792 Coffee 10750 Packaged foods  including frozen desserts  10794 Malt-based foods24.5% III OPERATIONS III-18. Number of locations where plants and or operations offices of the entity are situated  LocationNumber of plantsNumber of offices Total National 27 11 38 International - - - III-19. Markets served by the entity  a. Number of locations Location Number National 28 states and 8 union territories International 61 countries We have a pan-India presence and serve all states and union territories in India.b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity  Exports contribute to 2.7% of our total turnover. We aim to expand global presence of our brands, such as Vaseline, Dove, Pears, BRU, Red Label, Lakm, Horlicks, and Boost, and to effectively provide cross- border sourcing of FMCG products to other Unilever companies across the world. c. A brief on the types of customers  We have 90 years of presence in the country, and 9 out of 10 Indian households use one or more of our brands. Our brands are present in around 9 million retail outlets spread across the country through a network of 3,500  distributors, the backbone of our retail reach. We also help our retail partners to grow sustainably. The longstanding relationships with our customers are based on trust and mutual understanding. We continue to work with all our partners including, small family-owned stores to large, organised retail, e-Commerce and now quick-commerce, to serve the ever evolving needs of our shoppers, in rural as well as urban areas. Our endeavour has always been to ensure that our brands are readily available wherever consumers shop. 12 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED IV EMPLOYEES IV-20. Details as of the end of the financial year  a. Employees and workers  including differently abled   Our journey towards achieving an equitable and inclusive culture in our workforce has been marked by significant milestones. We have a 42% representation of women at the managerial level, and are dedicated to further strengthening this. Through several programs, such as Samavesh and Ahilya, we strive to enhance womens representation in our factories and salesforce, respectively. We have over 1,600 women as shopfloor employees across our manufacturing locations and have onboarded over 1,500 women in sales. S. No. Particulars Total  A Male Female Nos.  B  %  B A  Nos.  C  %  C A  Employees 1 Permanent  D  7,693 5,477 71.2% 2,216 28.8%  2 Other than permanent  E  509 266 52.3% 243 47.7% 3 Total employees  D E  8,202 5,743 70.0% 2,459 30.0% Workers 4 Permanent  F  11,109 10,373 93.4% 736 6.6% 5 Other than permanent  G  7,356 6,479 88.1% 877 11.9% 6 Total workers  F G  18,465 16,852 91.3% 1,613 8.7%  As of March 2025, we have achieved a gender diversity of 42% at our managerial base b. Differently abled employees and workers  We continue to work towards inclusivity beyond gender. This involves celebrating the distinctive contributions of all individuals, regardless of factors such as their background, disability, sexual orientation, or any other characteristic. Our disability inclusion programme has been designed to create an inclusive ecosystem. We facilitate voluntary self- disclosure and reasonable accommodation policy to enable employees to disclose their disability and avail support discreetly. Our sites in Dapada, Amli, Haridwar and R D Centres in Mumbai and Bengaluru have been certified for accessibility. Refer to our page for more details on https   www.hul.co.in sustainability equity-diversity- and-inclusion  . S. No. Particulars Total  A Male Female Nos.  B  %  B A  Nos.  C  %  C A  Differently abled employees 1 Permanent  D  19 15 78.9% 4 21.1% 2 Other than permanent  E  2 - - 2 100.0% 3 Total differently-abled employees  D E  21 15 71.4% 6 28.6% Differently abled Workers 4 Permanent  F  84 73 86.9% 11 13.1% 5 Other than permanent  G  2 2 100.0% - - 6 Total differently-abled workers  F G  86 75 87.2% 11 12.8%42% gender diversity across our managerial base 13 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section A - GENERAL DISCLOSURESIV-21. Participation Inclusion Representation of women Particulars Total  A No. and percentage of females No  B  %  B A  Board of Directors  BoD  9 2 22.2% Key Management Personnel  KMP   3 1 33.3% Above table represents HULs Board of Directors and Key Management Personnel  Two KMPs i.e. Managing Director   Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director  Finance, IT   Chief Financial Officer, are on our Board of Directors IV-22. Turnover rate for permanent employees and workers HUL, often referred to as the leadership factory, is known to attract and develop the best talent in the industry. Recognised as one of the best companies to work for, we continue to be the No. 1 Employer of Choice across sectors, based on a brand perception study by InsideIIM at target B-Schools in 2024 and Best Organisation for Women 2025 by Economic Times. ParticularsFY 2024-25 Turnover rate  % FY 2023-24 Turnover rate  % FY 2022-23 Turnover rate  %  Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Permanent employees 17.8% 21.8% 18.9%  15.9% 21.6% 17.4% 17.7% 25.3% 19.6% Permanent workers 2.9% 2.6% 2.8%   6.0% 13.1% 6.3% 7.9% 11.1% 8.0% Turnover rate includes voluntary and involuntary attrition  Voluntary  13.1%  Involuntary  5.8%   Voluntary  0.3%  Involuntary  2.5% No. 1 Employer of Choice across sectors, based on a brand perception study by InsideIIM at target B-Schools in 2024Best Organisation for Women 2025 by Economic Times 14 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED V HOLDING, SUBSIDIARY, AND ASSOCIATE COMPANIES  INCLUDING JOINT VENTURES  V-23.  a  Names of holding, subsidiary, associate companies, and joint ventures S. No. Name  A Type of holding subsidiary  associate joint venture% of shares held by the listed entityDoes the entity in column A, participate in the business responsibility initiatives of the listed entity  1 Unilever PLC Holding - No 2 Unilever Group Limited Holding - No 3 Unilever Overseas Holdings AG Holding - No 4 Unilever UK CN Holdings Limited Holding - No 5 Unilever South India Estates Limited Holding - No 6 Unilever Assam Estates Limited Holding - No 7 Unilever Overseas Holdings B V Holding - No 8 Unilever India Exports Limited Wholly-owned subsidiary 100.0% Yes 9 Lakme Lever Private Limited Wholly-owned subsidiary 100.0% Yes 10 Unilever Nepal Limited Subsidiary 80.0% No 11 Daverashola Estates Private Limited Wholly-owned subsidiary 100.0% Yes 12 Levers Associated Trust Limited Wholly-owned subsidiary 100.0% Yes 13 Levindra Trust Limited Wholly-owned subsidiary 100.0% Yes 14 Hindlever Trust Limited Wholly-owned subsidiary 100.0% Yes 15 Hindustan Unilever Foundation Wholly-owned subsidiary 76.0% Yes 16 Unilever India Limited Wholly-owned subsidiary 100.0% Yes 17 Kwality Walls  India  Limited Wholly-owned subsidiary 100.0% Yes 18 Zywie Ventures Private Limited Subsidiary 51.0%  No 19 Nutritionalab Private Limited Joint Venture 19.8%  No   24% shareholding of Hindustan Unilever Foundation is held by Unilever India Exports Limited  On a fully diluted basis   On 10th January, 2025, the Company has incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in the name of Kwality Walls  India  Limited  KWIL . HUL has decided to demerge its Ice Cream business into a separate listed entity through KWIL, which will have an authorised share capital of 250 crores and will handle the manufacture, marketing, distribution, and sale of ice creams, frozen desserts, and other frozen foods, in line with SEBI regulations, with HUL owning 100% of KWIL at the time of incorporation VI CSR DETAILS VI-24.  i . Is CSR applicable as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013  Yes No   Yes, CSR provisions are applicable as per Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013. A belief that sustainable business drives superior performance lies at the heart of our business strategy. We have been undertaking CSR activities before it was made a regulation. We have a dedicated CSR Policy focussed on the key strategic sustainability pillars of Climate, Nature, Plastics and Livelihoods, and lays down the approach towards community development in water conservation, health and hygiene, skill development, education, social advancement, gender equality, empowerment of women, ensuring environmental sustainability and rural development projects. The CSR Policy, as approved by the Board of Directors, is available on our website at  https    www.hul.co.in investor-relations corporate-social- responsibility  . VI-24.  ii  Turnove r  61,517 crores  VI-24.  iii  Net worth  49,153 crores    Turnover excludes Unilever Nepal and Zywie Ventures Private Limited   Net worth is for HUL Standalone 15 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section A - GENERAL DISCLOSURESVII TRANSPARENCY AND DISCLOSURE COMPLIANCE VII-25. Complaints grievances on any of the principles  one to nine  under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct  Stakeholder group from whom the complaint was receivedGrievance redressal mechanism in place   If yes, provide web- link for the grievance redressal policy FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 No. of complaints filed during the yearNo. of complaints pending resolution at the close of the year RemarksNo. of complaints filed during the yearNo. of complaints pending resolution at the close of the year Remarks Communities Yes https   app. convercent.com en-us  LandingPage 99b958aa- 55a1-e611-80d3- 0 0 0d3ab1117e and manual registers at factories1 - - - - - Investors  other than shareholders Not applicable, as we do not have any investors other than the shareholders  e.g., preference shareholders or debenture holders  Shareholders Yes https   www.hul.co.in  investors shareholder- information-and- contacts investor- contacts 227 - - 242 - - Employees and workersYes https   app. convercent.com en-us  LandingPage 99b958aa- 55a1-e611-80d3- 0 0 0d3ab1117e and manual registers at factories94 6 - 89 21 - Customers  Yes https   www.hul.co.in  contact 3,386 116 - 3,583 225 - Value chain partners Yes https   app. convercent.com en-us  LandingPage 99b958aa- 55a1-e611-80d3- 0 0 0d3ab1117e- - - - - -  Customers include distributors  Value chain partners include vendors suppliers VII-26. Overview of the entitys material responsible business conduct issues. Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to the business, the rationale for identifying the same, and the approach to adapting or mitigating the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format. In todays uncertain and ever-changing world, having a formal process to identify material sustainability issues is crucial. This process helps us focus on what matters most to our business and stakeholders. A sustainability issue is considered material if it meets two conditions  first, it poses a principal risk or is part of a principal risk that could impact our business or performance  second, it holds importance for our key stakeholders, including our employees, consumers, customers  retailers , suppliers, business partners, planet, and society  citizens, NGOs, governments . HUL updates its material topics every two years to stay aligned with changes in Global and Indian context. This year, HUL has refreshed its assessment to identify additions and revisions to the material topics, aligning with ESRS and parent entity  Unilever PLC . Below is the re-prioritised list of top sustainability issues across our operations and value chain. 16 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED S. no.Material issue identifiedIndicate whether risk or opportunity  R O Rationale for identifying the risk  opportunityIn case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigateFinancial implications of the risk or opportunity  Indicate positive or negative implications  Environment 1 Resource use and CircularityRisk Waste management, Resource use and Circularity is a material topic for HUL. While plastic ensures product durability and affordability, its improper disposal leads to environmental and social consequencesWe aim to transform plastic use by treating waste as a valuable resource and advocating for a circular economy. Extended Producer Responsibility  EPR  applies to HUL, and we are fully compliant with EPR rules, aligning our credit purchase plan with guidelines from the Central Pollution Control Board  CPCB . Starting financial year 2023- 24, we registered on the CPCB portal for EPR Credit exchange, ensuring timely submissions of our plastic footprint and credits. We drive comprehensive waste management programs through partnerships with companies, governments and NGOs for collection, segregation, and processing, promoting consumer behaviour change. We are innovating alternative packaging solutions to reduce virgin plastic use and maximise recycled plastic. Increased cost of developing sustainable packaging alternatives and risk of fines and penalties associated with non-compliance with statutory EPR regulations. In the long run, initiatives and innovation have the potential to yield positive financial outcomes in the form of reduction in the amount of virgin plastic used, use of recycled plastic and alternative packaging considering the evolving regulatory landscape. 2 Biodiversity and Ecosystem HealthRisk HULs operations and supply chain depend heavily on natural resources, making biodiversity loss, deforestation, and land- use changes as a material risk. The company sources key agricultural and non- agricultural commodities, which, if not managed sustainably, can contribute to ecosystem degradation, impact biodiversity, and attract regulatory and reputational risks.We are committed to restoring the health of our planet, in our supply chain and beyond. The Unilever Sustainable Agriculture Principle  SAP  and the Unilever Regenerative Agriculture Principles  RAPs  also provide the basis for our sustainable sourcing programme. In this program, we focus on 12 key crops and agricultural commodities, prioritising their importance to our business and brands. Certification is a vital tool for driving positive change in agricultural supply chains. As Indias largest tea business and a founding member of trustea, we collaborate with the Indian tea industry on sustainability efforts.Biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation may pose financial risks for HUL. Regulatory and compliance costs may rise due to stricter regulations on land use and biodiversity harm. Supply chain risks include increased raw material costs from climate change impacts. Operational risks involve non-compliance affecting business expansion. Market risks arise from failing to meet sustainability goals, leading to competitive disadvantages. 3 Climate ChangeRisk Climate Change is a material risk to us, which has the potential to impact both environment and our business in the short, medium, and long term, given our extensive manufacturing operations, global supply chains, and reliance on climate-sensitive raw materials. Our activities contribute to greenhouse gas  GHG  emissions across value chain, from raw material sourcing and logistics to product usage and disposal. Additionally, extreme weather events such as floods, droughts, and heatwaves impact agricultural yields, disrupt supply chains, and alter consumer purchasing patterns. Regulatory pressures related to carbon emissions, and energy transition further necessitate proactive adaptation strategies.We are committed to addressing climate change through renewable energy investments, low-carbon supply chain initiatives, and sustainable product innovation. As a result, energy consumption per tonne of production has decreased by 49% since 2008. We have expanded our renewable energy footprint with additional solar plants and wind energy investments. To reduce emissions from our largest raw material sources, HUL has successfully launched several reformulated, lower- emission products in our Home Care and Personal Care portfolios which form the bulk of our emissions and also laying the foundation to scale these in the future.Programs to mitigate risk emanating from climate change can lead to incremental costs in the short to medium term, which can be partly compensated by increased efficiency in the long-term. Importantly, these programs would strengthen business resilience and protect long term value. 17 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section A - GENERAL DISCLOSURESS. no.Material issue identifiedIndicate whether risk or opportunity  R O Rationale for identifying the risk  opportunityIn case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigateFinancial implications of the risk or opportunity  Indicate positive or negative implications  4 Water Security and ManagementRisk The 2030 Water Resources Group has estimated that India will have only half the water it needs by 2030 for farming, household and industrial use. Rising water scarcity could interrupt our production schedules, affecting our operations and at the same time impact the demand for products that require excessive water during consumer use or decreasing sales because of reduced product efficacy due to water shortages. Uncertainty in the timing and severity of summer, winter, and monsoon may also impact the business adversely.We have taken steps to reduce and conserve water across our manufacturing operations. We have delivered a 50% reduction in water usage  cubic metre per tonne of production  in our own manufacturing operations in financial year 2024-25 as compared to the 2008 baseline. We could achieve this by focusing on reducing freshwater abstraction, implementing captive rainwater harvesting, and maximising the use of RO plants. Since its inception in 2010, the Hindustan Unilever Foundation  HUF  has enabled the creation of over 3.9 trillion litres of water potential , enough to meet Indias drinking water needs for nearly two years. This achievement underscores HUFs significant impact on water conservation and community resource management. Water scarcity can have an adverse impact on our operations, agricultural sourcing and can potentially reduce demand for our products that require water during use. Measures to reduce and conserve water would optimise resource requirement, not just in our operations, but also in the wider communities. This would secure water needs and create enabling environment for future demand of our products. 5 Pollution Risk Pollution from industrial activities, logistics, and waste discharge poses significant environmental and social risks for us. Factory emissions, improper waste handling, and pollutants released during production or transportation can degrade air quality, contaminate water bodies, and harm soil health. This pollution not only disrupts ecosystems and endangers biodiversity but also impacts human health, particularly in communities near our operations and supply chain hubsWe are continually developing new methods to eliminate the use of hazardous chemicals in cleaning and disinfection processes by upgrading our hardware with the latest technologies. We have successfully achieved zero non-hazardous waste to landfill status across all our factories by maximising the reuse and recycling of non- hazardous waste in environmentally friendly ways. In the absence of recycling infrastructure, we recover energy from waste, optimising waste flows and enhancing our circular economy approach. This improves factory operations and reduces environmental impact. All our factories are equipped with pre-processing facilities, such as waste segregation and source reduction, to enhance recyclability. We maximise recycling and reuse treated wastewater on-site, reducing freshwater intake. As of 31st March, 2025, 25 out of 27 factories achieve Zero Liquid Discharge, recycling 100% of wastewater for uses like cooling, boiler feed, and gardening. Additionally, our factories are equipped with efficient air pollution control devices installed at the stacks to minimise the risk of air pollution. Furthermore, we monitor air, water and soil pollutants at a minimum bi- annually across our sites to ensure we can promptly address any risksEnvironmental pollution caused by operations or supply chain activities can harm our reputation as a responsible brand. Regulatory penalties and legal challenges arising from pollution can increase operational costs and disrupt business activities. Compliance with environmental regulations is critical, and violations could lead to fines, lawsuits, or even restrictions on production. Social 6 Diversity, Equity, and InclusionOpportunity We believe Diversity, Equity Inclusion  DEI  is a business imperative that drives innovation, enhances employee engagement, and strengthens market relevance. With evolving workforce demographics, DEI allows us to unlock untapped talent pools, attract and retain top talent, and reflect the diverse consumers and communities we serve. DEI also presents an opportunity to strengthen brand reputation, ensure fairness in our practices, and build trust among employees, customers, and stakeholders.Our approach to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion is grounded in strong governance, continuous capability building, and measurable outcomes. Diversity, equity, and inclusion are core elements of our culture and are embedded across our employee life cycle. We have been investing in the capability building of our business leaders and HR practitioners to support equity advocacy, diversity awareness, and psychological safety in their teams. Externally, we stay attuned to evolving regulations and societal expectations by engaging with industry experts and benchmarking our practices. We are committed to creating a culture where everyone can thrive and contribute to our collective growth.Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion are business enablers that enhance performance, fuel innovation, and foster a more balanced and inclusive work culture. By embedding DEI into our core, we drive sustainable growth, and contribute to a fairer, more socially inclusive world.   Assured by an external independent firm 18 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED S. no.Material issue identifiedIndicate whether risk or opportunity  R O Rationale for identifying the risk  opportunityIn case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigateFinancial implications of the risk or opportunity  Indicate positive or negative implications  7 Talent RetentionRisk Talent retention is a vital risk for us, impacting efficiency, innovation, and competitiveness. By focusing on employee engagement, skill development, and a supportive culture, we boost employee satisfaction and loyalty, reduce recruitment costs and ensuring business continuity. Our talent strategy helps HUL maintain a high-performing workforce adaptable to market changes, positioning it as an employer of choice and strengthening its competitive edge.HUL emphasises talent attraction and retention, leveraging brand equity to draw top talent. Digital campaigns and capability-building initiatives enhance our appeal as an employer of choice. Robust Talent and Reward Management processes, succession planning, proactive market mapping and progressive policies ensure we nurture a high- performing workforce, and secure our reputation as a forward-thinking organisation.Our long-term success relies on attracting and retaining diverse talent, especially in competitive markets. The evolving nature of work poses risks to productivity and operations. Effective talent management is crucial, to maintain engagement, productivity, and collaboration. 8 Human Rights, Fair Work, and Responsible Sourcing, across Value ChainRisk Maintaining human rights and fair working practices throughout our operations and value chain is crucial for upholding ethical business standards, regulatory compliance, and the well- being of the workforce. Addressing challenges such as workplace health and safety, discrimination, and fair wages is vital for protecting worker rights, preventing exploitation, and fostering workplace equity. Additionally, investing in training programs and capability-building initiatives for workers and suppliers enhances long- term workforce development and business resilience.We are committed to upholding and promoting human rights across our operations and interactions with business partners, aligning with the United Nations Global Compact. We have identified and prioritised eight human rights issues  discrimination, fair wages, forced labour, freedom of association, harassment, health and safety, land rights, and working hours. Our Human Rights Policy Statement outlines our principles, supported by a comprehensive framework guiding expected behaviors from employees and partners. Our Responsible Partner Policy  RPP  sets supplier requirements, embodying our commitment to responsible, transparent, and sustainable practices. We work with suppliers on continuous improvement, verifying RPP compliance through self- declarations, online assessments, and third-party audits in high-risk areas, reinforcing our dedication to ethical supply chain practices. Additionally, we are committed to ensuring that suppliers representing 50% of our procurement spend to sign a living wage promise by 2026.Potential human rights violations and noncompliance can cause damage to corporate reputation and have financial repercussions. Other Material Responsible Business Conduct Topic s  9 Business Ethics and ConductOpportunity Our brands and reputation are invaluable assets, and how we operate, contribute to society, and engage with the world around is always under scrutiny. Acting ethically is essential to protect our reputation and brands.Our Business Integrity framework ensures that how we do business is fully aligned with our values and applicable laws and regulations of the country. Our Code of Business Principles  CoBP  and Code Policies govern the behaviour of employees, suppliers, distributors and other third parties, who work with us. Processes for identifying and resolving breaches of Code and Code Policies are clearly defined and regularly communicated throughout the Company. We, from the very inception, are known to conduct our business with integrity and highest level of governance, which form the bedrock of our operations.We are committed to doing business with integrity and play a positive role in building relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties. Good governance and ethics not only help increase trust among consumers, investors, and other stakeholders, but also help avoid fines, penalties, and other legal implications. For a complete materiality matrix, please refer to our website https   www.hul.co.in sustainability sustainability- reporting-centre materialit y-assessment  . 19 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability ReportSection B - MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES Our ESG objectives are both ambitious and realistic, allowing us to seamlessly integrate them into our business operations. By leveraging our brands as a force for good, powered by purpose and innovation, we aim to drive transformative change and contribute positively to society and the environment. Our robust governance framework supports our ESG objectives, ensuring responsible, transparent, and sustainable business practices. 67 % Independent Directors on ESG Committee ESG Policy approved by the BoardCoBP aligning with UNGC principles and ILO guidelinesIndependent Chair of ESG Committee at Board levelBusiness Responsibility and Sustainability Report 20 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED Our purpose is to succeed by upholding high corporate standards, positively impacting communities and the environment. By fostering a culture of integrity, responsibility, and sustainability, we aim to create lasting value for our stakeholders and contribute to a better world. Our commitment to ethical practices and social responsibility drives us to innovate and lead with purpose, ensuring a brighter future for all. POLICY AND MANAGEMENT PROCESSES National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct Principles PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent, and accountable. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders. PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent. PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe. PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights. PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development. PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains. PRINCIPLE 6 Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment. PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner.BP Biddappa Executive Director and Chief People, Transformation and Sustainability Officer 21 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Disclosure questionsP1 Ethics   integrityP2 Sustainable productsP3 Employee well beingP4 StakeholdersP5 Human rightsP6 EnvironmentP7 Regulatory requirementP8 Inclusive growthP9 Consumer and IT 1. a. Whether your entitys policy  policies cover each principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs.  Yes No Yes, we have an ESG Policy, approved by our ESG Committee, which covers all National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct  NGRBC  principles. In addition to the ESG Policy , we have various other policies relevant to NGRBC principles. 1. b. Has the policy been approved by the Board   Yes No Yes 1. c. Web Link of the Policies, if availableThe policies can be accessed via the link https   www.hul.co.in investors corporate-governance  and some internal policies applicable to employees are available on our intranet. 2. Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures.  Yes No Yes 3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners   Yes No Yes, our Code of Business Principles  CoBP  and Responsible Partner Policy  RPP  extend to value chain partners. 4. Name of the national and international codes certifications  labels standards  e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea  standards  e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS  adopted by your entityOur CoBP conforms to UNGC guidelines and ILO PrinciplesFarm Sustainability Assessment, Rainforest Alliance, TrustTea, Forest Stewardship Council, Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, Round Table for Responsible Soya, FSSC 22000 Unilever Occupational Health   Safety Framework based on the OHSAS Safety Management systemUnilever Environmental Care Framework based on ISO 14001 standardsOur CoBP conforms to UNGC guidelines and ILO principlesUnilever Environmental Care Framework standards based on ISO 14001 standardsTax Transparency policy is based on OECD principlesCSR disclosures pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013Cyber Security Standards are aligned to the NIST- CSF Advertising Standards Council of India  ASCI   Code on Fair Advertising to Consumers.  We are a founder member of ASCI  5. Specific commitments, goals, and targets set by the entity with defined timelines, if any.We have established Environmental, Social, and Governance  ESG  Goals as part of our Sustainability Strategy. Our ambitious agenda addresses critical issues that matter deeply to our consumers and stakeholders, including climate action, protecting and regenerating nature, managing plastics, and improving livelihoods. The ESG Goals form a part of the Integrated Annual Report. 6. Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals and targets along-with reasons in case the same are not met.We constantly monitor the performance towards the goals and take adequate actions wherever required. We have a robust governance mechanism to monitor the progress of our goals. The Sustainability leadership team, chaired by the Chief People, Transformation and Sustainability Officer, reports the progress to the Chief Executive Officer   Managing Director, and Management Committee quarterly. Our ESG Committee, chaired by an Independent Director and comprising of a majority of Independent Directors, assists the Board in overseeing the vision and focus on our strategy relating to ESG as well as monitoring the progress against the stated vision and reviewing the policies and practices, initiatives and goals about ESG, ensuring that they remain effective. For details, refer to the ESG highlights section of the Integrated Annual Report.  The other policies relevant to respective NGRBC Principles are listed below P1  Code of Business Principles  CoBP , Policy on Conflict of Interest, Policy on Prevention of Insider Trading  Share Dealing Code  , Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery Policy, Board Familiarisation Programme, Corporate Governance Code, Policy on Related Party Transactions, Whistle Blower Policy, Policy for Determination of Materiality of Events, Code of Conduct for Board and Members of Senior Management P2  Responsible Partner Policy  RPP , Business Partner Code, Quality Policy, Sustainable Agriculture Principle  SAP  P3  CoBP, Safety   Health Policy, Equal Opportunity Policy, Disability Accommodation Policy, Parental Leave Policy, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy  POSH , Affirmative Action Policy, Education Assistance Policy, Reward Policy, Gender Transition Policy, Career Break Policy, Location flexibility and Split Family Arrangement, Travel Policy for New Parents, Foster Kinship Caregiver Policy, Retirement Policy P4  CoBP, CSR Policy, Corporate Governance Code P5  CoBP, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy  POSH , Policy to Support Survivors of Abuse, Whistle Blower Policy, Board Diversity Policy P6  Environment, Health   Safety Policy, CoBP P7  CoBP, Anti-trust and Fair Competition  as part of CoBP  P8  Supplier Diversity   Inclusion Programme, CoBP, CSR Policy P9  Cyber Security Policy, Data Privacy Policy, Quality PolicySection B - MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES 22 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED 7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and achievements  listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure  Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to share our Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report  BRSR  for the financial year 2024-25. This report aims to update you of our sustainability performance driven by our efforts to create a positive impact on the environment and society. Sustainability Embedded In Our Strategy Our new strategy, ASPIRE  Unlocking a Billion Aspirations, aims to unlock growth for the business and is underlined by the key pillar of sustainability. We have been driving an ambitious sustainability agenda for decades. Yet, in the face of ever-growing economic, environmental, and social challenges, we are evolving our approach. Now is the time to focus on delivering impact by making sustainability progress integral to business performance. We will continue to focus on four sustainability priorities  Climate, Nature, Plastics, and Livelihoods. We will be scaling our proven models across these pillars to create a larger impact. We truly believe that embracing sustainability is the only way for businesses to remain relevant in the future. Accelerating ESG Leadership At HUL, we have made significant progress against our ESG  Environmental, Social, and Governance  Goals. In our manufacturing operations, we have reduced our CO2 emissions by 99%  per tonne of production , water usage by 50%  cubic meter per tonne of production , and total waste generated from our factories by 62%  per tonne of production  in financial year 2024-25 compared to the 2008 baseline. We are targeting net zero emissions by 2039. While we are well placed to deliver on Scope 1   2 emissions, we are relentlessly working on achieving our commitment on Scope 3 by 2039. This includes working closely with our biggest suppliers across all our categories. As a founding member of the Resource Efficiency and Circular Economy Industry Coalition  RECEIC , we aim to meet Net Zero commitments by addressing the use of sustainable raw materials through industry-wide action and government support. Doing Well By Doing Good On our journey towards building plastic circularity through our Program Project Circular Bharat we have developed a decentralised financially viable model that works in the areas of Behaviour change, Social inclusion of waste workers, and Infrastructure development. We partner with multiple government bodies, other corporates such as SBI Foundation, and organisations such as UNDP and Xynteo on our plastic initiatives. Last year we launched Project Circular India Toolkit, a first-of-its-kind awareness- to-action toolkit which will help replicate the change across the ecosystem in partnership with the Ministry of Environment, Forests,   Climate Change  MoEFCC . To play our part in securing the future of water we continue to build water conservation potential and enhance water-dependent livelihoods through the Hindustan Unilever Foundation and its partners. Since 2010, we have enabled creation of a cumulative water conservation potential of over 3.9 trillion litres. Suvidha, our pioneering model of urban hygiene and sanitation centre today serves 5,00,000 people in Mumbai. Our first centre was set up in a slum in Mumbai in 2016 in partnership with the BMC to serve 2,000 people annually. We have now scaled it up to 20 centres across Mumbai in partnership with the government, HSBC India, and JSW Foundation. We have also signed a Memorandum of Understanding  MoU  with Ministry of Housing   Urban Affairs  MoHUA  to provide innovation   design expertise to build climate  resilient sanitation models for Urban India. Not just the environment, but we have also been working towards creating a positive social impact. Project Shakti, launched at the dawn of the new millennium with the vision of empowering women in rural areas, has been a resounding success. It has been 11 years since we started Prabhat, our sustainable community development initiative aimed at improving livelihoods, health, and nutrition as well as protecting the environment. Since its inception, Prabhat has positively benefitted 11 million lives across 12 states and 2 union territories. Building For The Future Sustainability has always been ingrained in the way we do our business and not just a separate initiative. This is because we truly believe that sustainable practices can drive innovation, reduce costs, enhance brand reputation, and create long-term value for shareholders. We have come a long way in our sustainability journey and going forward we will require bold and decisive leadership to make a meaningful difference. Rohit Jawa Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director 23 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability ReportSection B - MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES 8. Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight of the Business Responsibility policy  ies  Our Chief Executive Office   Managing Director is responsible for the implementation and oversight of our Business Responsibility   Sustainability policies. Our ESG Committee, chaired by an Independent Director and comprising of a majority of Independent Directors, assists the Board in overseeing the vision and focus on our strategy relating to ESG as well as monitoring the progress against the stated vision and reviewing the policies and practices, initiatives and goals about ESG, ensuring that they remain effective. 9. Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board Director responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues   Yes No . If yes, provide details. The ESG Committee of the Board is responsible for oversight of sustainability-related matters. The ESG committee of the Board comprises three directors  two Independent Directors and one Executive Director . S. No. Name of the Director DIN Designation Role 1 Leo Puri 01764813 Independent Director Chairperson 2 Neelam Dhawan 00871445 Independent Director Member 3 Rohit Jawa 10063590 Executive Director Member 10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company  Indicate whether review was undertaken by Director Committee of the Board Any other Committee Subject for reviewIndicate whether the review was undertaken by the Director committee of the Board any other committeeFrequency  annually half-yearly quarterly other  please specify  P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Performance against above policies and follow up actionAll NGRBC related policies are reviewed by ESG Committee. Additionally, Audit Committee reviews the Code of Business PrinciplesESG Committee  Half yearly basis Audit Committee  Quarterly basis  for CoBP  Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the principles, and rectification of any non-compliancesCompliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the principles, and rectification of any non-compliances is done by the Audit CommitteeQuarterly basis 24 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED 11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment evaluation of the working of its policies by an external agency   Yes No . If yes, provide name of the agency. S. No. P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 1 We have a robust functional review mechanism complemented by an independent internal audit process that covers the working of all key policies. The internal audits are conducted by various external independent firms during the year. In addition to the above, relevant third-party assessments are conducted across business units periodically. 12. If answer to question  1  above is No i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated  Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 The entity does not consider the principles material to its business  Yes No  Not applicableThe entity is not at a stage where it is in a position to formulate and implement the policies on specified principles  Yes No  The entity does not have the financial or human and technical resources available for the task  Yes No  It is planned to be done in the next financial year  Yes No  Any other reason 25 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability ReportSection C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESSES SHOULD CONDUCT AND GOVERN THEMSELVES WITH INTEGRITY, AND IN A MANNER THAT IS ETHICAL, TRANSPARENT AND ACCOUNTABLE We aim to create an environment where employees embody our values of integrity, respect, responsibility, and pioneering, while remaining vigilant and confident in addressing potential concerns. Our Business Integrity programme brings these values to life, helping employees apply ethical standards in their daily work. This programme includes clear policies, guidelines, and robust procedures to prevent, detect, and respond to inappropriate behaviour. By focusing on business integrity, we strengthen our ability to attract and retain top talent, select the right partners, and protect our people, assets, and reputation. Our Business Integrity framework ensures our operations align with our values and comply with laws and regulations. It has three pillars  Prevention, Detection, and Response. These high standards protect our stakeholders and support sustainable growth. Knowing the code and doing the right thing makes our company stronger. Nil Bribery corruption charges against our BoD KMPs employees workers by law enforcement agency Nil Material fines penalties punishments as per regulation 30 of SEBI LODRNil Corruption conflicts of interest complaints against the Director KMPs 98.3 % Value chain partners covered by the awareness programs 26 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED At HUL, we are committed to upholding the highest standards of business integrity. Our Code of Business Principles and related policies guide our actions, ensuring we operate with honesty, integrity, and respect for human rights. We strive to create a positive impact through our operations and relationships, fostering a culture of integrity at all levels Vivek Mittal Executive Director, Legal and Corporate Affairs ESSENTIAL INDICATORS  EI-1. Percentage covered by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year  SegmentTotal number of training and awareness programmes held Topics principles covered under the training and its impactPercentage of persons in respective category covered by the awareness programmes Board of Directors5 Update on ESG Goals, Customer Development, Consumer and Market Insights, Research   Development, Building Talent and Capabilities   Update on Changes to the BRSR Reporting Framework88.9% Key Managerial Personnel5 100.0% Employees other than BoD and KMPs  1  Introduction to Sustainability, ESG Goals, Climate Change, Human Rights, Health and Safety, and Skill Upgradation78.9% Workers   1  85.7% Above table represents HULs Board of Directors and Key Managerial Personnel  During the year, we rolled out a comprehensive training module to drive awareness among our employees and workers on the above topics, as represented in the table. In addition to this, we undertook various thematic training programmes across the organisation during the year   Employees and workers include both permanent and other than permanent contractual  including part time  EI-2. Details of fines penalties  punishment award compounding fees  settlement amount paid in proceedings  by the entity or by Directors KMPs  with regulators law enforcement agencies  judicial institutions, in the financial year, in the following format  Note  the entity shall make disclosures based on materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI  Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations  Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entitys website  During financial year 2024-25, there were no material fines penalties punishments awards compounding fees  settlements as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI  Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations  Regulations, 2015 imposed on the Company or its Directors KMPs.EI-3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed. Not applicable100% KMP covered by ESG awareness programme 27 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREEI-4. Does the entity have an Anti-Corruption or Anti-Bribery Policy  If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web link to the Policy. Yes, one of the five pillars of our code policy focusses on countering corruption. Under this pillar, various policies address bribery, money laundering, gifts and hospitality, conflicts of interest, and more. Our commitment to doing business with integrity requires consistently high standards. We have built a strong reputation for being an ethical, trustworthy company. We are responsible for protecting that reputation by conducting our business with integrity as we interact with business partners, consumers, and public authorities. Dealings with public officials are particularly high risk  even the appearance of illegal conduct could cause significant damage to our reputation. Accordingly, our zero-tolerance approach towards bribery and corruption applies to all our operations and prohibits any kind of bribery. All these policies can be referred at https   www.hul.co.in sustainability responsible-business business-integrity  EI-5. Number of Directors KMPs employees workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery corruption. During financial year 2024-25, there were no charges of bribery corruption by any law enforcement agency against our Directors KMPs employees workers. Category FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Directors - - KMPs - - Employees - - Workers - - EI-6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest  During financial year 2024-25, there were no complaints concerning conflicts of interest against the Directors and KMPs. Category FY 2024-25 Remarks FY 2023-24 Remarks Number of complaints received in relation to issues of conflict of interest of the Directors- - - - Number of complaints received in relation to issues of conflict of interest of the KMPs- - - - EI-7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines  penalties action taken by regulators law enforcement agencies judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest. Not applicable, as we do not have any instances of corruption conflicts of interest against Directors and KMPs. EI-8. Number of days of accounts payables  Accounts payable  365    Cost of goods  services procured  in the following format  Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Number of days of accounts payables 84 days 85 days EI-9. Open-ness of business  Provide details of concentration of purchases and sales with trading houses, dealers, and related parties along-with loans and advances   investments, with related parties, in the following format  Parameter Metrics FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Concentration of purchases a. Purchases from trading houses as % of total purchases 23.0% 22.8% b. Number of trading houses where purchases are made from 332 296 c. Purchases from top 10 trading houses as % of total purchases from trading houses42.5% 51.9% Concentration of salesa. Sales to dealers distributors as % of total sales 66.9% 69.6% b. Number of dealers distributors to whom sales are made 4,373 4,394 c. Sales to top 10 dealers distributors as % of total sales to dealers  distributors5.3% 4.9% Share of RPTs   ina. Purchases  Purchases with related parties Total purchases  10.6% 6.2% b. Sales  Sales to related parties Total sales  1.0% 1.0% c. Loans   advances  Loans   advances given to related parties  Total loans   advances 66.8% 69.2% d. Investments  Investments in related parties Total investments made  21.4% 17.9%  From financial year 2024-25, Purchases include both product input materials and capex procurement   Related party transactions are as per the standalone financial statements of HUL 28 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED LEADERSHIP INDICATORS LI-1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the principles during the financial year  Our Responsible Partner Policy  RPP  sets out the requirements that all our suppliers must comply to do business with us. Our RPP and its Fundamental Principles embody our commitment to responsible, transparent, and sustainable business. Each fundamental principle of the RPP guides what HUL expects from its responsible and sustainable suppliers. We are committed to working with our suppliers on this journey of continuous improvement. We have also verified alignment to and implementation of the RPPs mandatory requirements using supplier self- declarations, online assessments and independent verification, including third-party audits for designated high-risk countries and supplier types. S. No.Total number of awareness programmes held Topics principles covered under the training% of value chain partners covered  by value of business done with such partners  under the awareness programmes 1 One programme  total of 5,098 vendors were trained through digital medium  Legal Compliance   Countering Corruption  Safeguarding Information   Property  Sourcing and Manufacturing Products  Freely Agreed Terms of Employment  Free from Discrimination  Free from Harassment  Work is Voluntary  Appropriate Age  Fair Wages  Reasonable Working Hours  Freedom of Association  Health   Safety  Access to Grievance Mechanisms   Remedies  Land Rights  Protect and Regenerate Nature  Climate Action  Waste-free World98.3% LI-2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board   Yes No  If yes, provide details of the same. Yes, we have adopted the Code of Conduct for the Board of Directors, which sets clear guidelines for avoiding and disclosing actual or potential conflicts of interest with the Company. We receive an annual declaration and changes, if any, from time to time from our Board of Directors and Senior Management on the Code of Conduct Policy. The Policy is available on our website and can be viewed at https   www.hul.co.in investors corpora te-governance  .5,098 Vendors trained through Digital medium 29 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREPRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESSES SHOULD PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES IN A MANNER THAT IS SUSTAINABLE AND SAFE Innovation is at the heart of our ambition to grow sustainably. By combining key consumer insights with cutting-edge science and technology, we develop products that improve lives while positively impacting the environment and society. Our comprehensive portfolio of projects focusses on breakthrough technologies and responding to consumer demands, making our products more sustainable. We leverage advanced digital technology and data to deliver extraordinary products, services, and experiences. With world-class R D centers and a strong tradition of research, we aim to innovate boldly for people and the planet. 13.2 % R D Investments in technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes 6.1 % Recycled plastic procured as a % of total plastic footprint in finished goods sold13.6 % Capex Investments in technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes 58.2 % Key crops sustainably sourced 30 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED Our strategy is centred on disruptive, technology-led, and consumer-centric innovation interlocked with sustainability - transforming the way we deliver value. While we leverage advanced digital and AI capabilities to drive speed and agility, we are also harnessing the power of nature and science to develop next-generation materials and technologies that are beneficial for both people and planet. This ensures we not only meet current demands but also pave the way for an exciting sustainable future. Vibhav Sanzgiri Executive Director, Research and Development ESSENTIAL INDICATORS EI-1. Percentage of R D and capital expenditure  CAPEX  investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R D and CAPEX investments made by the entity, respectively. Category FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Details of improvements in environmental and social impacts R D 13.2%  9.5%  Throughout the year, we focussed on research and development for sustainability projects across different business groups. Our efforts included incorporating post- consumer recycled  PCR  materials, reducing the use of virgin plastics, cutting greenhouse gas  GHG  emissions, reducing sugar content, and transitioning to plant-based materials. Our R D sites also worked on improving processes and capabilities thus enhancing safety, conserving water, managing waste, and promoting employee health and wellbeing. CAPEX 13.6% 25.0% During the year, we have undertaken capital expenditure on various projects like upgrading infrastructure, implementing energy-efficient systems like magnetic chillers and heat pumps, improving safety measures, automating processes, and ensuring compliance with statutory requirements, all to deliver positive outcomes for environmental and social aspects.  In addition to this, we benefit from the extensive R D work undertaken by the Unilever Group through the technology licensing arrangement. Projects having positive environmental and social impact of R D undertaken by the parent company will be over and above the reported numbers EI-2. a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing   Yes No  Yes, our Responsible Partner Policy  RPP  outlines mandatory supplier requirements for ethical and sustainable business practices. It reflects our commitment to responsible, transparent, and sustainable operations, central to our core sustainable business strategy. In addition to RPP, The Unilever Sustainable Agriculture Principle  SAP  and the Unilever Regenerative Agriculture Principles  RAPs  also provide the basis for our sustainable sourcing programme. The Unilever Sustainable Agriculture Principle  SAP  presents best practices for farming, utilised by hundreds of thousands of farmers since 2010 for sustainable operations and Unilever Regenerative Agriculture Principles guide soil nourishment, carbon capture, and land restoration. These principles inspire our business, brands, suppliers, and peers, forming the foundation for regenerative programs in our supply chain. In our revised Sustainable Sourcing programme, we concentrate on 12 key crops and agricultural commodities, prioritising their significance to our business and brands. We believe that certification is one of the vital ways to drive positive change in agricultural supply chains. We are Indias largest tea business and a founding member of trustea   https   trustea.org partner  , the Indian tea industry collaboration on sustainability. The RPP and Sustainable Agriculture Principle and Regenerative Agriculture Principles  RAPs  are hosted on our website at https   www.hul.co.in sustain ability nature . 31 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREEI-2. b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably  58.2%  of key crops were sourced sustainably. These crops include tea, palm oil, paper and board, cereal, sugar, dairy, cocoa, coconut oil, soy, starches, and vegetables   herbs, comprising more than two- third of our agricultural raw material volumes. Through focused programmes, we have achieved sustainable sourcing for 96% of our paper and board, 77% of our tomatoes and 82% of our tea procured during the calendar year 2024.regulations. Our waste collection plan aligns with the EPR guidelines and the plan submitted to the Central Pollution Control Board  CPCB . W.e.f. financial year 2023- 24, we have been registered on the CPCB online portal dedicated to EPR Credit exchange and ensure timely submissions of our plastic footprint and corresponding EPR credits purchased. LEADERSHIP INDICATORS LI-1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective Assessments  LCA  for any of its products  for manufacturing industry  or for its services  for service industry   If yes, provide details in the following format  Life Cycle Assessments  LCAs  of our products are conducted by our Parent Company  Unilever PLC , either internally with in-house LCA experts or by external partners and in compliance with ISO 14040. Unilever applies internationally accepted impact assessment methods, such as the IPCC 2021 GWP100, ReCiPe and the European Commissions Environmental Footprint  EF  for quantifying the environmental impacts of a product  from the sourcing of raw materials to product manufacture, distribution, consumer use and disposal. Unilever conducts an annual GHG footprinting  i.e., LCA focussed on climate change impact category  exercise for representative products across 13 countries, including India. The methodology is consistent with ISO 14040. Additionally, each year, Unilever assesses its corporate GHG emissions through a corporate LCA focussed on climate change, using a top-down approach  utilising material flow analysis - MFA  enabling reporting on its mid-term 2030 SBTi targets and its 2039 Net Zero target. Name of Product  ServiceAll major brands across Home Care, Beauty   Wellbeing, Personal Care, Foods and Refreshments % of total Turnover contributed76.7% Boundary for which the Life Cycle Perspective  Assessment was conductedCradle-to-grave LCA focussed on climate change was conducted to assess GHG emissions over the entire life cycle of the products, from raw material extraction to final disposal Whether conducted by independent external agency  Yes No Assessment was conducted by internal agency  Safety, Environmental   Regulatory Sciences  Results communicated in public domain  Yes  No  If yes, provide the web-link.Results are currently not communicated in the public domain In 2022, LCA was used to understand the key challenges to achieve our Net Zero target for all our products from sourcing to point of sale. A key area of focus was the raw materials footprint, which is related to the emissions EI-3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling, and disposing at the end of life, for  a  Plastics  including packaging   b  E-waste  c  Hazardous waste and  d  other waste. There are mainly two categories of material that are reclaimed  a  Damaged and expired finished goods  There is a comprehensive standard operating procedure  SOP  for safely handling and disposing of expired  damaged stocks returned from the market and depots. These goods are either safely disposed of or recycled or reused. b  Plastic waste as part of Extended Producer Responsibility  EPR   We follow the new national EPR Framework notified by CPCB that has become operational since Apr 2023 wherein an EPR wallet credit system has been created by CPCB. We undertake EPR credit purchases based on our plastic footprint   consumption and fully meet the EPR obligation. EI-4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility  EPR  is applicable to the entitys activities  Yes No . If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility  EPR  plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards  If not, provide steps taken to address the same. Yes, Extended Producer Responsibility  EPR  is applicable to HUL, and we comply with the prevailing EPR rules and 82% of Tea sustainably sourced  This indicator is for Calendar Year 2024 which consists of percentage of inputs sourced sustainably for 12 key crops. 32 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED from our suppliers. We also included the impact of packaging, inbound and outbound logistics  including retail-related emissions  and disposal of the products  post-consumer use, i.e., biodegradation of chemicals and treatment of packaging . In 2024, Unilever commissioned an annual LCA model representing its palm oil sourcing, and HUL together with the Indian Tea Research Association  TRA  commissioned an LCA of tea production in India. Unilever has provided funding towards development of the World Foods Life Cycle Database, and is still among the key users and partners of this initiative, owned and managed by an external LCA consultancy. Unilever is a sponsor of the United Nations Environment Programme  UNEP  Life Cycle Initiative  LCI , which aims to support the application of LCA for policy and wider decision-making. LI-2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and or risks arising from production or disposal of your products services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective Assessments  LCA  or through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same. We have conducted a detailed analysis to identify inherent ESG risks for our business, considering issues significant to our stakeholders. And the key risks identified, inter alia, are climate change, waste management, resource use and circularity, biodiversity and ecosystem health and water scarcity and use. Our Life Cycle Assessments have highlighted Scope 3 emissions as a notable factor in our overall emissions footprint. Raw material sourcing and production represents a significant contribution to the total life cycle impact of our products. The GHG emissions from the production of our key forest-risk commodities  i.e. palm oil, paper and board, tea, soy and cocoa  arise from land use change  e.g. deforestation , agricultural practices and downstream processing and hence our focus is on using non- deforestation materials  including in the case of palm, for example, NDP  No deforestation, no use of peat land . Aligned with Unilevers climate action transition plan to achieve net zero across our value chain by 2039, we are working closely with our supplier partners, industry associations, regulatory bodies, and the government to foster a supportive ecosystem and implement the necessary changes. Ingredients in our products contribute a significant portion to our scope 3 emissions and is completely dependent on external partners. Keeping that in mind we hosted Clean Future Summit in August 2023 to foster industry-wide commitments on sustainable practices around emissions across the value chain. During this event we also revealed the results of successful scale up of low greenhouse gas emitting soda in partnership with Tuticorin Alkali Chemicals and Fertilizers Limited. We have made progress since then and are now sourcing a significant portion of our Soda Ash requirements from Low GHG sources. To achieve net zero across our value chain, we need industry and government alignment and action. To enable this, we have secured founding membership of the Resource Efficiency and Circular Economy Industry Coalition  RECEIC   launched under Indias G20 Presidency in 2023. FICCI acts as the secretariat for RECEIC. Within this Unilever is chairing a working group Material Transition for the Chemical Industry. Through this platform, we are collaborating with chemical industry partners across value chain to recommend suitable policies and measures to the government for enabling materials transition from current fossil-based ingredients to renewable ingredients. The Company has partnered with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry  FICCI  to launch the Centre for Sustainability Leadership  CSL . The ambition of CSL is to help accelerate the Indian corporate sectors climate action by institutionalising sustainability leadership across FICCI members. In 2024, HSBC has partnered with the centre as a co-founder. 33 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURESustainable Palm Soap bars typically comprising more than 80% soap molecules   70% TFM - Total Fatty Matter  account for a large part of the palm footprint in non-edible usage. Ensuring availability and managing the environmental impacts of increased oil consumption are challenges faced by the soap industry today. Our R D is committed to and has developed novel and proprietary technologies to manufacture soap bars that meet the desired functionality, while reducing the palm footprint significantly, and helping address climate change through lowering greenhouse gas emissions and the carbon footprint of our products. Further, from a consumer point of view, these products allow for better affordability, beauty and hygiene benefits, and sensory properties, which are desired by consumers. For example, we have implemented Stratos Technology, which not only uses more sustainable palm oil but also enhances the efficacy of our soap bars. By incorporating benefit agents like plant polysaccharides, natural fatty acids, and vitamins, this technology reduces Total Fatty Matter  TFM  by upto 25%, decreases GHG emissions across the value chain, and delivers superior products to our consumers. We have received the prestigious Skin Health Alliance accreditation on Lux and also multiple accolades at the IPHA conference for the hygiene benefits of this technology.Additionally, we have acquired a palm undertaking in Telangana as part of our palm localisation strategy. This backward integration will help build a resilient supply chain for palm derivatives, ensuring sustainable practices, reducing import dependency, and supporting the local value chain. This initiative aligns with the National Mission on Edible Oils, which aims to boost domestic production and reduce reliance on imports. Plastic Circularity We are rethinking innovative solutions to redesign our packaging by cutting down the use of virgin plastic and replacing by post-consumer recycled  PCR  resins  https   www.hul.co.in sustainabil ity plastics   . Over the past five years, we have been at the forefront fostering recyclers, nurturing startups, and championing sustainable practices. In a groundbreaking collaboration with Banyan Nation, we achieved a significant milestone by incorporating PCR into shampoo bottles for the first time and since then have been expanding PCR inclusion across all Brands. As one of the early adopters, we have incorporated recycled plastic into our packaged food business following the r-PET regulation unlock  e.g., Kissan Squash . We have also announced acquisition of stake in recycled flexible plastics firm Lucro Plastecycle Private Limited, taking ahead our partnership. With their expertise in flexibles, we were able to pioneer PCR in flexibles packaging. These collaborative approaches not only mark pivotal moments in sustainable packaging but also promotes the growth of its supply chain partners and fosters innovation within the industry. Over 25 of our brands use PCR, to name a few like Vim Dishwash, Surf excel, Comfort, Vaseline, Dove, Sunsilk etc. To sustain the transitions from non-recyclable to recyclable design, practical and cost-efficient solutions are imperative. Our strategy to achieve cost-efficient solution are effective e-tendering, developing alternate feedstock suppliers and convertors, one structure to achieve scale benefit and digitisation. LI-3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material  by value  used in production  for manufacturing industry  or providing services  for service industry . Plastic packaging needs to be recycled in environmentally friendly ways to build a circular economy. We have set ambitious targets to ramp up the use of recycled plastic and only use reusable, recyclable or compostable plastic packaging   https   www.hul.co.in sustainability plastics   . Indicate input materialRecycled or re-used input material to total material FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Plastic packaging 6.1%  4.4%   % of recycled plastic as post-consumer recycled plastic procured on a base of total plastic footprint in the finished goods sold during the financial year 34 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED LI-4. Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount  in metric tonnes  reused, recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format  ProductFY 202425 FY 202324 Re-used Recycled Safely disposed Re-used Recycled Safely disposed Plastics  including packaging   MT  - - 2,07,005   - - 88,294   E-waste - - - - - - Hazardous waste - - - - - - Other waste  Expired and damaged products  MT 1,549 682 6,380 1,909 539 6,352   Since April 2023, EPR for Plastics is carried out by purchase of EPR credits from Plastic Waste Processors  PWPs  via portal maintained by Central Pollution Control Board  CPCB , in line with applicable guidelines. HUL is not collecting any branded plastic waste directly. On-ground plastic waste collection   disposal is carried out by PWPs authorised   monitored by CPCB  State Pollution Control Board  SPCB    A part of the safely disposed plastic is also recycled, however, due to practical difficulties in traceability of such recycled plastics, the entire quantum is reported as safely disposed LI-5. Reclaimed products and their packaging materials  as percentage of products sold  for each product category. S. no. Indicate product categoryReclaimed products and their packaging materials as % of total products sold in respective category 1 Expired and damaged products  Depot and Market Return  0.2% 2 Plastic waste 165.8% of total plastic packaging material    HUL is committed to fulfilling its plastic waste management EPR obligations as mandated by the government. We actively pursue EPR credits to meet our commitment of purchasing EPR credits equal to 100% of the plastics used in our products. In financial year 2023-24, we received 88,294 tons of actual credits, covering 72.2% of our total plastic packaging material. This shortfall was due to a temporary system glitch on the CPCBs EPR portal. Consequently, the pending credits from the previous financial year, were credited in addition to this financial years requirement 35 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREPRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE THE WELL-BEING OF ALL EMPLOYEES, INCLUDING THOSE IN THEIR VALUE CHAINS At HUL, we are committed to empowering our employees to be the best version of themselves. We achieve this by fostering a work environment that prioritises health, safety, and a high- quality work-life balance. We understand that when our employees are healthy and well, and living their lifes purpose, they can contribute more effectively to their families, their work, and society as a whole. Our initiatives include comprehensive wellness programs, flexible working hours, and opportunities for personal and professional growth, ensuring that our team members feel supported and valued in every aspect of their lives. 96.6 % Return to work rate for female employees 100 % Plants and offices assessed on health and safety and working conditions94.3 % Value chain partners assessed on health and safety and working conditions 81.7 % Permanent workers associated with the union 36 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED At HUL, we are dedicated to making a meaningful impact on the world while excelling in our professional endeavours and promoting overall wellbeing. This unique blend of purpose, excellence, and wellbeing distinguishes us in the industry. By fostering a culture that values both achievement and care, we aim to inspire positive change and create lasting value for our stakeholders and the communities we serve. BP Biddappa Executive Director and Chief People, Transformation and Sustainability Officer ESSENTIAL INDICATORS EI-1. a. Provide details of measures for the well-being of employees Category% of employees covered by Total  A Health insurance Accident insurance Maternity benefits Paternity benefits Day-care facilities Number  B  %  B A Number  C  %  C A Number  D  %  D A Number  E  %  E A Number  F  %  F A  Permanent employees Male 5,477 5,477 100% 5,477 100% - - 5,173 94.5% 5,028 91.8% Female 2,216 2,216 100% 2,216 100% 2,216 100% - - 1,726 77.9% Total 7,693 7,693 100% 7,693 100% 2,216 100% 5,173 94.5% 6,754 87.8% Other than permanent employees Male 266 252 94.7% 215 80.8% - - 248 93.2% - - Female 243 233 95.9% 212 87.2% 243 100% - - - - Total 509 485 95.3% 427 83.9% 243 100% 248 93.2% - - EI-1. b. Details of measures for the well-being of workers Category% of workers covered by Total  A Health insurance Accident insurance Maternity benefits Paternity benefits Day-care facilities Number  B  %  B A Number  C  %  C A Number  D  %  D A Number  E  %  E A Number  F  %  F A  Permanent workers Male 10,373 10,373 100% 10,373 100% - - 10,373 100% 10,354 99.8% Female 736 736 100% 736 100% 736 100% - - 736 100% Total 11,109 11,109 100% 11,109 100% 736 100% 10,373 100% 11,090 99.8%   Other than permanent workers Male 6,479 6,479 100% 6,479 100% - - - - 6,466 99.8% Female 877 877 100% 877 100% 877 100% - - 870 99.2% Total 7,356 7,356 100%  7,356 100% 877 100% - - 7,336 99.8%    Health insurance coverage as per ESI for other than Permanent Worker is 100% in all locations where ESIC is applicable as per statutory requirements. Of the 27 operating factories under the scope of reporting, 7 factories are in locations where there is no ESI coverage   One of our site i.e. Tatapuram have less than 50 workers which do not meet the minimum threshold for running a day care centre. This is also in line with the requirements of Section 11A of Maternity Benefit  Amendment  Act, 2017 37 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREEI-1. c. Spending on measures towards well-being of employees and workers  including permanent and other than permanent  in the following format  Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Cost incurred on well-being measures as a % of total revenue of the company 0.2% 0.2%   Following costs are considered  Health and accident insurance premium, maternity and paternity leave cost, day care cost and staff welfare expenses relating to wellbeing EI-2. Details of retirement benefits, for current and previous financial years BenefitsFY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 No. of employees covered as a % of total employeesNo. of workers covered as a % of total workersDeducted and deposited with the authority  Y N NA No. of employees covered as a % of total employeesNo. of workers covered as a % of total workersDeducted and deposited with the authority  Y N NA  PF 100.0% 100.0% Yes 100.0% 100.0% Yes Gratuity 100.0% 100.0% Not applicable 100.0% 100.0% Not applicable ESI  1.0% 0.2% Yes 1.9% 1.2% Yes  As per the ESI regulation, 100% of the eligible employees and workers have been covered under the benefits EI-3. Are the premises offices of the entity accessible to differently-abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016  If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard. We recognise the importance of meeting the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and are taking proactive steps to support the needs of individuals with disabilities. Our Company has implemented various measures to provide disabled-accessible infrastructure. In our various factories and offices, we have installed   Ramps  Lowered reception desk for wheelchair access  Elevator voice annunciator  Evacuation chair  Automated sliding doors to support mobility  Tactile flooring and Braille signages  Induction loop system  All gender accessible toilets, fire alarm freshers and accessible guest roomsAdditionally, we are preparing the remaining factories and offices for accessibility infrastructure and aim to achieve certification for 100% of our sites with the Minimum Mandatory Standards required under the Persons with Disabilities Act. We believe that accessibility is an essential aspect of social responsibility and are persistent in our efforts to create an inclusive environment for everyone. EI-4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016  If so, provide a weblink to the policy. Yes, we have an equal employment opportunity policy, which can be referred to on https   www.hul.co.in  investors corporate-governance policies hr-policies  . We continue to believe that our policies regarding equal employment opportunities are necessary not only to comply with state and local laws and obligations, but also because they are in line with our core values and represent an important contribution to the communities in which we live and work. We have set clear goals to eliminate bias and discrimination in our policies and practices, accelerate diverse representation in our workforce, and remove barriers for people with disabilities. EI-5. Return to work and retention rates of permanent employees and workers that took parental leave. We understand the needs of our employees, who are planning to or have recently become parents, to take paid leave to experience this beautiful phase and nurture a bond with their young child. We also extend maternity and paternity leave with full pay and benefits to parents legally adopting a child. We also extend this benefit to same-sex partners, where the partner who is a primary caregiver is eligible for paid leave and benefits as applicable for maternity, and the secondary caregiver is eligible for paid leave and benefits as applicable for paternity. Additionally, we offer extended caregiver leave and foster care leave to support our employees in various parenting roles. GenderPermanent employees  FY 2024-25 Permanent workers  FY 2024-25  Return-to-work rateRetention rateReturn-to-work rateRetention rate Male 100.0% 84.3% 100.0% 98.1% Female 96.6% 77.5% 95.8% 92.3% Total 98.5% 82.6% 99.0% 97.0% 38 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED EI-6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees and workers  If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief. Category Yes No Details of the mechanism in brief Permanent workersYes Yes. Grievances received at the factories are duly acknowledged and recorded in the grievance register and these are regularly monitored. Workers can raise grievances at https   app.convercent.com en-us LandingPage 99b958aa-55a1-e611-80d3-000d3ab1117e  an online portal for raising concerns and grievances , which also allows filing of anonymous complaints. We also have a website   https   www.hul.co.in investor-relations corporate- governance   , a dedicated hotline  000 800 100 7096 , and an e-mail ID   cobp.hul unilever. com   for raising code  and non-code related breaches.Other than permanent workersYes Permanent employeesYes Yes. we have grievance drop boxes at the office premises, where employees can share their grievances, and these are regularly monitored. Employees can raise grievances at https   app.convercent.com en-us LandingPage 99b958aa-55a1-e611-80d3-000d3ab1117e  an online portal for raising concerns and grievances , which also allows filing of anonymous complaints. There is also a website   https   www.hul.co.in investor-relations corporate- governance   , a dedicated hotline  000 800 100 7096 , and an e-mail ID   cobp.hul unilever. com   for raising code and non-code related breaches.Other than permanent employeesYes  The Code of Business Principles  CoBP  can be referred to on  https   www.hul.co.in files 8da5bc9c-f79a-4c6c-b1cd-b1fae8acfb9a  db2d2fdb318d8603c25ebe4e018a3 b87e904a3b8.pdf 39 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREEI-7. Membership of employees and workers in association s  or union s  recognised by the listed entity  All the employees and workers are free to exercise their right to form and or join trade unions, refrain from doing so, or bargain collectively. This freedom of association also ensures fair compensation and that long-term settlements cover all the factories and offices. CategoryFY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Total employees  workers in respective categoryNo. of employees  workers in respective category, who are part of association s  or union %Total employees  workers in respective categoryNo. of employees  workers in respective category, who are part of association s  or union %  A   B   B A   A   B   B A  Total permanent employees 7,693 - 0.0% 8,245 - 0.0% Male 5,477 - 0.0% 5,945 - 0.0% Female 2,216 - 0.0% 2,300 - 0.0% Total permanent workers 11,109 9,077 81.7% 11,182 9,272 82.9% Male 10,373 8,759 84.4% 10,524 8,947 85.0% Female 736 318 43.2% 658 325 49.4% EI-8. Details of training given to employees and workers We have a robust and diverse agenda to impart skills to employees and workers through various training programs. CategoryFY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Total  A On health and safety measures On skill upgradation Total  D On health and safety measures On skill upgradation No.  B  %  B A  No.  C  %  C A  No.  E  %  E D  No.  F  %  F D  Employees Male 5,743 4,657 81.1% 4,657 81.1% 6,179 5,762 93.3% 5,762 93.3% Female 2,459 1,815 73.8% 1,815 73.8% 2,476 2,222 89.7% 2,222 89.7% Total 8,202 6,472 78.9% 6,472 78.9% 8,655 7,984 92.2% 7,984 92.2% Workers Male 16,852 14,589 86.6% 14,589 86.6% 17,790 16,935 95.2% 16,935 95.2% Female 1,613 1,232 76.4% 1,232 76.4% 1,319 1,094 82.9% 1,094 82.9% Total 18,465 15,821 85.7% 15,821 85.7% 19,109 18,029 94.4% 18,029 94.4% EI-9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and workers We are a performance-driven organisation with a robust Performance Management System. At the start of every performance year, based on business priorities, each unit function crafts its flexible goals, which include business and development-related objectives. We assess the achievements against these goals at the end of the year with regular feedback throughout the year to ensure that people deliver their best. We provide our employees with versatile horizontal and vertical exposure to chart a course for developing leaders for the future. For factory workers, performance is evaluated annually through our in-house Performance Appraisal System. We assess workers based on their performance for their assigned jobs against set standards and ensure communication. CategoryFY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Total  A  No.  B  %  B A  Total  A  No.  B  %  B A  Employees Male 5,477 5,173 94.4% 5,945 5,670 95.4% Female 2,216 1,976 89.2% 2,300 2,060 89.6% Total 7,693 7,149 92.9% 8,245 7,730 93.8% Workers Male 10,373 10,372 99.9% 10,524 10,522 99.9% Female 736 736 100.0% 658 658 100.0% Total 11,109 11,108 99.9% 11,182 11,180 99.9% As per the Companys policy, every employee and worker is eligible for an annual performance and career development review. At HUL, we follow a calendar year cycle i.e., January to December for performance and career development review. In the above table, % of employees not covered are largely those who have joined the organisation in the period January 2025 to March 2025 as they would be covered in next years performance review 40 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED EI-10. a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity   Yes No . If yes, the coverage such system  Yes, we have established a robust health and safety management system for all employees and workers. Our occupational health and safety system is governed by our Occupational Health and Safety  OHS  Framework Standards. We are committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment for those working on, visiting, or living near our operations. Management at all levels is responsible and accountable for everyone involved in our operations, including employees and visitors. EI-10. b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity  We conduct risk assessments based on the Unilevers Occupational Health and Safety Risk Assessment Methodology. Occupational health and safety risk assessment is integral to the organisations routine operations and management of change processes for new processes, equipment and methods of working. We conduct a thorough risk assessment exercise for routine and non-routine tasks. Adequate controls are put in place to mitigate the identified risks. For non-routine tasks, the risks are governed by the Permit-to-work process and task specific Method statements. The process involves identifying the hazards associated with the facilities and the work involved and outlining the controls to eliminate or reduce hazards. A Job safety assessment is developed for specific permitted work tasks and displayed with the permit. EI-10. c. Whether you have processes for workers to report work-related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks.  yes no  Yes, workers are encouraged to report work-related hazards through offline as well as online modes. We take adequate measures to mitigate these hazards and communicate the same to the workers. EI-10. d. Do the employees worker of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services   yes no  Yes, the employees and workers have access to non- occupational on-site medical and healthcare services for common health conditions and emergency management. In addition, employees and workers can avail medical services from a chain of hospitals across the country through the insurance coverage extended by the organisation.EI-11. Details of safety related incidents, in the following format  Safety incident  number Category  FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate  LTIFR   per one million-person hours worked Employees - 0.13 Workers 0.23 0.13 Total recordable work-related injuriesEmployees 1 3 Workers 24 21 No. of fatalities Employees - - Workers - - High consequence work-related injury or ill- health  excluding fatalities Employees - - Workers 1 -  Including in the contract workforce EI-12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace. We strive to integrate safety into all our business processes. Our safety and health management system follows the principle of Plan, Do, Check and Act. We assess credible risks and take appropriate measures to mitigate them. Periodic training, capacity-building sessions and regular mock drills are conducted at each unit. Safety induction is mandatory for all new employees and workers, including contractors, security personnel and staff. Safety incidents are reported and investigated, with lessons learned communicated widely within the organisation. Our approach is supported by continuous improvement objectives and periodic reviews through the Safety and Health Sub-Committees, each led by a Management Committee Member. A robust audit mechanism verifies compliance with internal standards and statutory requirements. We promote a safety culture through behavioural interventions at all levels, emphasising the importance of safety as a personal value. Positive safety behaviours are encouraged, and unsafe behaviours are corrected through established procedures. We maintain a comprehensive emergency response plan and related facilities at all sites, training employees to respond effectively. We also utilise digital tools to improve safety of our employees. Our team, comprising over 150 experienced and well-trained medical professionals  including physicians and nursing staff , is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy working environment. For instance, all employees can benefit from periodic health evaluations for health issues, health promotion programs, access to market-leading medical care, and other support facilities. 41 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE EI-13. Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers. At factories, there is a formal grievance redressal mechanism for workers along with a defined escalation matrix to ensure timely closure of complaints. In addition to these, complaints can also be raised through our online portal i.e., Convercent Tool, which is available on our website    https   app.convercent.com en-us LandingPage 99b958aa-55a1- e611-80d3 - 0 0 0d3ab1117e   CategoryFY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Filed during the yearPending resolution at the end of year RemarksFiled during the yearPending resolution at the end of year Remarks Working conditions - - - - - - Health and safety - - - 2 1 - EI-14. Assessments for the year We have a robust mechanism to assess all our premises health, safety, and working conditions. All our sites undertake continuous gap assessments to track the effectiveness of the defined standards in the operations. Category% of your plants and offices that were assessed  by entity or statutory authorities or third parties  Health and safety practices100% Working conditions 100% EI-15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents  if any  and significant risks concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions. We investigate all recordable incidents to identify root causes and implement actions to prevent recurrence. We ensure timely closure of all gaps identified during internal and external audits and assessments. In financial year 2024-25, we enhanced our Safety   Health Policy. A safety pledge campaign was launched at our manufacturing sites to emphasise safe behaviors in both factories and offices. As part of our Road Safety Program, we established driver management centers at manufacturing sites and depots. These centers offer training facilities, dedicated resting areas, washrooms, and drinking water facilities for truck drivers, improving their health and sanitation, and thereby ensuring safety. We have also focussed on disseminating and implementing lessons learned from past incidents to prevent similar occurrences in the future. LEADERSHIP INDICATORS LI-1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of  A  Employees  Y N   B  Workers  Y N . Yes, we extend requisite support in the form of ex gratia to the legal heirs of all full-time employees and workers in the event of death during their service with us. 42 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED LI-2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value chain partners. Our Responsible Partner Policy  RPP  includes a set of mandatory requirements that all our suppliers need to meet to do business with us. Under RPP, value chain partners are required to comply with all applicable laws and regulations of the country where we undertake operations. LI-3. Provide the number of employees workers having suffered high consequence work- related injury ill-health fatalities  as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above , who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment. CategoryTotal no. of affectedNo. of employees workers that are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment employees workers FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Employees - - - - Workers  1 - - -  Worker will be redeployed to a suitable job position post rehabilitation Category% of value chain partners  by value of business done with such partners  that were assessed Health and safety practicesWe conduct periodic risk assessments of our suppliers using country risk and commodity risk data from external third-party risk data providers. As of 31st March, 2025, 94.3% of the suppliers  by value of business done  have undergone risk assessment and are compliant.Working conditions LI-6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners. During the reporting period, no significant risks   concerns were identified in the assessment of our suppliers. We expect our partners and their employees or contractors to report actual or suspected breaches of our RPP. We will investigate any non-conformity reported in good faith and discuss findings with the partner. If remediation is needed, we work with the partner to identify the root cause of the issue and to develop a time-bound corrective action plan to resolve the failure effectively and promptly. By working with partners to overcome any issues, we support the betterment of their business and, most importantly, promote respect for human rights. We conduct regular audits, and both third-party audit companies and suppliers are responsible for continuously updating us with the audit outcome on a digital system. Audit companies are mandated to report the audit documentation and the outcome of the initial and follow-up audits, while suppliers are mandated to report corrective actions and progress against each non-conformance identified, both within certain specified timeframes.LI-4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment   Yes No  Yes, we conduct retirement workshops for retiring employees. The Rewards and Human Resources teams conduct financial well-being sessions periodically and extend support in outplacements for redundancy cases. Furthermore, with the Future Fit model, we upskill our workforce to equip them with digital and non-digital skills, which helps hone their existing skillsets. LI-5. Details on assessment of value chain partners Our Responsible Partner Policy  RPP  sets out the requirements that all our suppliers must meet to do business with us. Our RPP and its Fundamental Principles embody our commitment to responsible, transparent, and sustainable business. Each fundamental principle of the RPP provides guidance on what we expect from our suppliers. We are committed to working with our suppliers on this journey of continuous improvement. We also verify alignment to and implementation of the RPPs mandatory requirements using supplier self- declarations, online assessments and independent verification, including third-party audits which are performed for designated high-risk countries and supplier types. 43 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREPRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT THE INTERESTS OF AND BE RESPONSIVE TO ALL ITS STAKEHOLDERS Our stakeholder driven strategy emphasises collaboration, transparency, and sustainability. Our commitment to integrity and transparency builds trust and strengthens relationships with stakeholders. Additionally, our focus on sustainability and corporate social responsibility aims to create positive impacts on society and the environment. Through regular communication and engagement, HUL thus, aligns its strategic goals with stakeholder interests, driving long- term growth and value creation. 6 categories of Key stakeholders identified  11 million Beneficiaries in Prabhat20 Suvidha Centres across Mumbai 78 Aspirational Districts under S AFAL Coverage 44 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED In todays dynamic world, our stakeholders play an increasingly vital role in driving innovation, fostering collaboration, and ensuring sustainable growth. Their diverse perspectives and active engagement are essential for navigating the complexities of our rapidly changing environment. By leveraging their insights and contributions, we build a resilient and forward-thinking organisation that is prepared to meet the challenges and opportunities of the future. Srinandan Sundaram Executive Director, Home Care ESSENTIAL INDICATORS EI-1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity. Our strategy and business model are centered around prioritising our stakeholders. By staying informed about their evolving needs, we can make strategic and well-informed decisions. Hence, we have established a robust process for identifying stakeholders and engaging with them to strengthen our partnerships. The six key stakeholder groups critical to our success are consumers, customers  including retailers , suppliers   business partners, planet   society  including citizens, NGOs, governments , shareholders and employees. We conduct regular stakeholder reviews to assess and address the businesss evolving interests, concerns, and expectations. Details of such reviews can be found in the stakeholder engagement section of the Report. EI-2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group. S. No.Stakeholder groupWhether identified as vulnerable and marginalised group  yes no   Channels of communication  e-mail, SMS, newspaper, pamphlets, advertisement, community meetings, notice board, website , otherFrequency of engagement  annually half yearly quarterly  others  please specify Purpose and scope of engagement including key topics and concerns raised during such engagement 1 ConsumersNo Phone, e-mail, social media channel, brands website, consumer surveys and digital voice of consumersOngoing Product quality and safety, information on products, fair and competitive pricing, complaints, queries, feedback, praise, and suggestions 2 Suppliers and business partnersNo Phone, e-mail, Convercent helpline, supplier meeting, audit, survey, and evaluationOngoing New business opportunities, supplier transparency, adherence to our RPP and Business Partner Code, ESG, value chain efficiency, payments, and purchase prices 3 Our peopleNo Surveys, townhalls, workshops, training, induction programs, grievance handling process, and performance appraisalOngoing Career development, diversity and equal opportunity, health and safety, skill upgradation, learning and development, organisational culture workplace, and grievances 4 ShareholdersNo Phone, e-mail, annual report, results announcements, microsite on performance highlights, media releases, Capital Markets Day, Annual General Meeting  AGM  and websiteOngoing, quarterlyAGMs allow shareholders to communicate directly with the Board of Directors and the Management Committee. Capital markets day and quarterly earnings calls allow investors to engage with the Companys management on business strategy and performance. We have dedicated e-mail IDs through which our Investor Service Department engages with shareholders to resolve their queries and grievances 45 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURES. No.Stakeholder groupWhether identified as vulnerable and marginalised group  yes no   Channels of communication  e-mail, SMS, newspaper, pamphlets, advertisement, community meetings, notice board, website , otherFrequency of engagement  annually half yearly quarterly  others  please specify Purpose and scope of engagement including key topics and concerns raised during such engagement 5 Planet and societyNo Field visits, CSR projects and engagements, Sustainability Forums, brand activations and campaign, community needs assessment, and websiteOngoing Emissions reduction, regenerative agriculture and water stewardship, plastics footprint reduction and recycled plastics, livelihoods of farmers and value chain  health and hygiene, skill development, education, social advancement, and rural development projects 6 CustomersNo Phone, e-mail, social media channels, brand pages, and the digital voice of consumersOngoing Product quality and safety, adequate information on products, timely delivery, service levels, training on technology and process capabilities  While we have marked no above as these stakeholders are not vulnerable and marginalised in entirety, we are consciously involved in uplifting the vulnerable and marginalised segments for these stakeholders via our extensive CSR activities across India referenced in respective sections LEADERSHIP INDICATORS LI-1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board. We strive to grow our business while protecting the planet and doing good for the community. To generate superior long-term value, we need to care for all our stakeholders  consumers, customers, employees, shareholders, business partners, and above all, the planet and society. We call it the multi-stakeholder model of sustainable growth. The CoBP and Code Policies guide how we interact with our key stakeholders. All engagements are conducted transparently, with honesty, integrity, and openness. Our engagement with our broader stakeholder community is undertaken by respective functions in consultation with the leadership team and overseen by the ESG committee. Feedback from different stakeholder groups on environmental, social, or economic topics is shared with the ESG Committee of the Board. We also have a CSR committee to review, monitor, and provide strategic direction to our CSR practices and social initiatives.LI-2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social topics  Yes No . If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity. We conduct and regularly update sustainability materiality assessment to identify and prioritise sustainability issues across our value chain so that we can focus on the key issues affecting our stakeholders. A sustainability issue is material to us if it is considered a principal risk or an element of a principal risk that could impact our business or performance or it has an impact on our stakeholders. Stakeholder consultation is paramount to us, as we live in an uncertain and constantly changing world. We constantly engage with our numerous stakeholders  be it consumers, customers, suppliers, and communities through both direct engagement  for example  in home consumer visits and also through forums . For example, our regenerative agriculture programme in tea   coffee has been set up in close consultation with small holder farmers keeping in mind their challenges. During this process, we also recognised the need for a Life Cycle Analysis  LCA  for tea production in India which has been carried out with the Tea Research Association  TRA . 46 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED LI-3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable  marginalised stakeholder groups. We engage with the vulnerable marginalised stakeholder groups in our local communities through different CSR programs with the aim to address issues, challenges faced by these various stakeholder. The programs encompass holistic community development, institution-building, and sustainability-related initiatives. Few instances to address the concerns of vulnerable  marginalised groups through various initiatives are listed below  Prabhat  Our sustainable community development initiative ensures the addressing of challenges faced by the local communities around our operational sites. For supporting communities dependent on agriculture, and water, as part of the Water stewardship, we try to understand the status of water and its existing governance mechanisms. When we embarked on the journey in our Chhindwara site, the small, marginalised farmers along with other stakeholders highlighted the issues of water security coupled with poor WASH facilities, water governance in the region. Taking immediate steps, we formed Paani Panchayats in the villages across the catchment, so that the community can own their water challenges, address it with the help of programme and the Panchayats. Farmers were sensitised on how to enhance their irrigation efficiency, make better crop choices requiring less water and improved agricultural practices. Additionally, watershed structures were constructed helping in increasing infiltration adding to ground water for improved water security. WASH facilities were provided and repaired in schools clubbed with awareness sessions for students.Suvidha  Access to clean water and sanitation is one of the most pressing issues of our time. With the onset of the pandemic, it has become more critical than ever to provide hygiene and sanitation solutions to low-income urban households, especially to communities residing in congested arrangements. HULs Suvidha centres provide best in class, affordable access to sanitation with clean toilets, purified drinking water, showers, laundry services to in informal settlements in Mumbai. Inclusive by design, the centres provide safe, private, hygienic, and odour- free toilet facilities for women, men, children and people with disabilities. Designed to be safe for women and girls, the centres include features such as 24x7 security, CCTV cameras, adequate lighting and a panic button connected to the main alarm. Moreover, the centres are run by staff hired from the community. The Company has built 20 Suvidha centres as of today, through a public-private partnership with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. SAFAL  To enhance Indias employability ecosystem to educate youth lacking necessary skills. Additionally, the female labour force participation rate was just 32.8% in 2022, much lower than that of men. While the India Skills Report 2024 notes an improvement in employability to 51.25%, disparities persist across states and demographics. Addressing this gap requires a multifaceted approach. HUL took this on priority and started working of livelihood enhancement of the women and youth of the country. Currently, our livelihood centers are present in 21 states and 2 union territories covering 78 aspirational districts. Initiatives like SAFAL  Skills Academy for Advancement of Livelihoods  are vital, as they engage with communities and provide tailored support to improve livelihoods. SAFAL helps build Indias more skilled and resilient workforce by focusing on marginalised groups and promoting inclusive growth. 47 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREPRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS Our commitment to human rights governance is unwavering, and we continuously strive to improve our practices and uphold the dignity and rights of all individuals within our sphere of influence. Through proactive measures, swift responses to challenges, and collaborative efforts with our partners and stakeholders, we are dedicated to fostering a workplace and supply chain environment where human rights are respected, protected, and promoted. Together, we are shaping a future where fairness, equality, and inclusivity are integral to our operations, contributing to a more sustainable and responsible business landscape. 100 % Assessment of own plants and offices on human rights 100 % Permanent workers are paid more than minimum wages94.3 % Suppliers assessed on human rights 100 % Permanent employees are paid more than minimum wages 48 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED HUL places an unwavering commitment to human rights at the core of its corporate values and operations. By implementing a comprehensive framework that includes robust policies, proactive measures, and continuous monitoring, HUL upholds the highest standards of ethical conduct. This dedication not only mitigates risks but also cultivates a respectful and equitable business environment, setting a benchmark for corporate responsibility. Arun Neelakantan Executive Director, Customer Development ESSENTIAL INDICATORS EI-1. Employees and workers who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy ies  of the entity, in the following format  CategoryFY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Total  A No. of employees  workers covered  B  %  B A  Total  A No. of employees  workers covered  B  %  B A  Employees Permanent 7,693 6,325 82.2% 8,245 7,689 93.3% Other than permanent 509 147 28.9% 410 295 72.0% Total employees 8,202 6,472 78.9% 8,655 7,984 92.2% Workers Permanent 11,109 10,913 98.2% 11,182 11,044 98.8% Other than permanent 7,356 4,908 66.7% 7,927 6,985 88.1% Total workers 18,465 15,821 85.7% 19,109 18,029 94.4% EI-2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees, in the following format  CategoryFY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Total  A Equal to minimum wageMore than minimum wage Total  A Equal to minimum wageMore than minimum wage No.  B  %  B A  No.  C  %  C A  No.  B  %  B A  No.  C  %  C A  Employees Permanent 7,693 - - 7,693 100.0% 8,245 - - 8,245 100.0% Male 5,477 - - 5,477 100.0% 5,945 - - 5,945 100.0% Female 2,216 - - 2,216 100.0% 2,300 - - 2,300 100.0% Other than permanent 509 - - 509 100.0% 410 - - 410 100.0% Male 266 - - 266 100.0% 234 - - 234 100.0% Female 243 - - 243 100.0% 176 - - 176 100.0% Workers Permanent 11,109 - - 11,109 100.0% 11,182 - - 11,182 100.0% Male 10,373 - - 10,373 100.0% 10,524 - - 10,524 100.0% Female 736 - - 736 100.0% 658 - - 658 100.0% Other than permanent 7,356 4,789 65.1% 2,567 34.9% 7,927 5,702 71.9% 2,225 28.1% Male 6,479 4,101 63.3% 2,378 36.7% 7,266 5,225 71.9% 2,041 28.1% Female 877 688 78.4% 189 21.6% 661 477 72.2% 184 27.8% 49 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREEI-3. Details of remuneration salary wages, in the following format   a  Median remuneration wages  Our framework ensures that compensation adheres to the Collective Bargaining Agreements and is at par with the external industry benchmarks by continually reviewing the average pay between genders. FY 2024-25Male Female NumberMedian remuneration  salary wages of respective category    NumberMedian remuneration  salary wages of respective category    Board of Directors  BoDs   7 56,78,630 2 56,81,829 Key Managerial Personnel 2   12,69,63,711 1 35,45,825 Employees other than BoD and KMP 5,474 14,58,472 2,215 14,80,093 Workers 10,373 6,68,239 736 4,50,433  BoDs includes Executive Directors and Independent Directors, as on 31st March, 2025   Ms. Radhika Shah succeeded Mr. Dev Bajpai as Company Secretary and Compliance Officer of the Company with effect from 1st January, 2025  Including Mr. Dev Bajpais remuneration for the period of his appointment as KMP, the Median KMP Remuneration -  Male  is 6,71,97,715 EI-3. Details of remuneration salary wages, in the following format   b  Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format  Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Gross wages paid to females  as % of total wages 22.5% 22.0%  Permanent employees and workers EI-4. Do you have a focal point  individual  committee  responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business  yes no   We are clear about our human rights commitments and our vision of building a fairer, more socially inclusive world. Our overarching principles relating to respect for human rights are set out in our Human Rights Policy Statement. We have a strong and comprehensive human rights policy framework, which supports us in realising these commitments and driving the behaviour we expect from our employees and everyone in our value chain. Yes, we have a Business Integrity Committee constituted under the Code of Business Principles  CoBP  to address human rights impacts and issues. We have also established a web portal and helpline for registering complaints, which can be accessed at https   app. convercent.com en-us LandingPage 99b958aa-55a1- e611-80d 3- 0 0 0d3ab1117e . Our ESG Committee oversees and addresses human rights impacts or issues at the Board level, and additionally, the Audit Committee reviews critical human rights complaints on a quarterly basis. In addition to the above, we have a dedicated e-mail ID  cobp.hul unilever.com   and contact number   91 22 5043 2789  for anonymous reporting of issues or concerns around the CoBP.EI-5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues. We are committed to ensuring an inclusive environment where people are treated with dignity and respect. We have 24 well-defined policies under our CoBP to effectively address grievances. Under these policies, we have established a web portal, email IDs, and contacts for receiving and managing complaints. If any employee has concerns, their reporting manager or Business Integrity Officer is their first point of contact. Employees can use web portal and phone option to report an issue anonymously. EI-6. Number of complaints on the following made by employees and workers  We are committed to upholding and promoting human rights across our operations and in our interactions with business partners. Our approach aligns with the United Nations Global Compact. We have identified and prioritised eight human rights issues and are committed to addressing them across our operations. The eight priority issues are discrimination, fair wages, forced labour, freedom of association, harassment, health and safety, land rights and working hours. Unilevers Human Rights Progress Report   https   www.unilever. com files cefcd733-4f03-4cc3-b30a-a5bb5242d3c6  unilever-human-rights-progress-report-2021.pdf and 50 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED https   www.unilever.com files 2d5cebae-87d6-4411- 817d-22757e597cbf 2022-progress-report-final-12-04. pdf  , and Modern Slavery Statement 2024   https    www.unilever.com files 2326fa58-7615-4d9e-97db- 60e77ff63730 unilever-modern-slavery-statement-2024. pdf   provide a comprehensive review of our efforts, including India operations. In India, we fully adhere to Unilevers approach to human rights. In addition to this, our Code of Business Principles  CoBP  steadfastly upholds the principles of human rights and fair treatment. Aligned with the International Labour Organization  ILO  principles, our CoBP serves as a guide to our actions both within and outside the organisation when engaging with business partners. CategoryFY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Filed during the yearPending resolution at the end of year RemarksFiled during the yearPending resolution at the end of year Remarks Sexual harassment 7 - - 7 - - Discrimination at the workplace- - - - - - Child labour - - - - - - Forced labour Involuntary labour- - - - - - Wages - - - - - - Other human rights-related issues- - - - - - EI-7. Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace  Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal  Act, 2013, in the following format  Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at Workplace  Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal  Act, 2013  POSH 7 7 Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees workers 0.2% 0.2% Complaints on POSH upheld 7 7 EI-8. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases. We prioritise equal opportunity and affirmative action by implementing comprehensive policies such as Whistle- blower, gender-neutral Prevention of Sexual Harassment  POSH , and Respect, Dignity, and Fair Treatment to effectively prevent discrimination and harassment. Our Respect, Dignity, and Fair Treatment Policy ensures that everyone in the workplace is treated with respect and dignity, guaranteeing equal treatment. The POSH Policy is both gender-neutral and LGBTQI  inclusive, detailing governance mechanisms for addressing sexual harassment across all genders and orientations. We regularly communicate with employees about various aspects of POSH to ensure awareness and understanding. We assure confidentiality and no retaliation for complaints made in good faith, upholding fairness and integrity in our investigation processes. Our policies are designed to protect individuals involved, including witnesses, from adverse treatment. In cases where a complaint is found to be made with false intent, we take necessary disciplinary actions to safeguard individuals interests. EI-9. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts  yes no   Yes. All our business agreements specifically provide for labour law compliances to be adhered to by all our suppliers and business partners, including fair wages and timely payment of statutory dues. The agreements also require all the organisations suppliers and business partners to ensure compliance with the sexual harassment law and adhere to our Code of Business Principles. Some of the fundamental principles of our RPP are based on voluntary work, eliminating forced or slave labour, appropriate age  no child labour, fair wages, and freedom of association with trade unions and collective bargaining. 51 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREEI-10. Assessments for the year  On the eight priority issues identified, each factory  branch office reviews and provides positive assurance to a Human Rights Assessment checklist annually. Category% of your plants and offices that were assessed  by entity or statutory authorities or third parties  Child Labour 100% Forced involuntary labour 100% Sexual harassment 100% Discrimination at workplace 100% Wages 100% Others  Freedom of Association, Law of Land, Working Hours, Grievance Redressal Mechanism100% EI-11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks concerns arising from the assessments at Question 10 above. Not applicable, as we have not come across any significant concerns from assessments conducted at our plant and offices. LEADERSHIP INDICATORS LI-1. Details of a business process being modified introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances  complaints. We have not encountered any concern requiring a change in our business processes because of addressing human rights grievances or complaints. LI-2. Details of the scope and coverage of any human rights due diligence conducted. Our approach is to embed human rights in all parts of our business, using global expertise to guide and support our teams. This approach includes expertise within our Global Sustainability, Supply Chain, Procurement and Responsible Business  part of Business Integrity  teams. Human rights due diligence is necessary for businesses to proactively manage potential and actual adverse human rights impacts with which they are or could be, involved. Human rights due diligence involves four core components   Identifying and assessing actual or potential adverse human rights impacts.  Integrating findings from impact assessments into relevant Company processes and taking appropriate action.  Tracking the operating effectiveness of measures taken to address adverse human rights issues. Communicating how issues are being addressed and showing stakeholders  in particular, affected stakeholders  that adequate policies and processes are in place. Please refer to our Human Rights Progress Report for further details  https   www.unilever.com files 2d5cebae- 87d6-4411-817d-22757e597cbf 2022-progress-report- final-12-04.pdf and Modern Slavery Statement 2024  https   www.unilever.com files 2326fa58-7615- 4d9e-97db-60e77ff63730 unilever-modern-slavery- stat ement-2024.pdf   LI-3. Is the premise office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016  We recognise the importance of meeting the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and are taking proactive steps to support the needs of individuals with disabilities. Our Company has implemented various measures to provide disabled-accessible infrastructure. In our various factories and offices, we have installed   Ramps  Lowered reception desk for wheelchair access  Elevator voice annunciator  Evacuation chair  Automated sliding doors to support mobility  Tactile flooring and Braille signages  Induction loop system  All gender-accessible toilets, fire alarm freshers and accessible guest rooms Additionally, we are preparing all our factories and offices for accessibility infrastructure and aim to achieve certification for 100% of our sites with the Minimum Mandatory Standards required under the Persons with Disabilities Act. We believe that accessibility is an essential aspect of social responsibility and are persistent in our efforts to create an inclusive environment for everyone. LI-4. Details on assessment of value chain partners Our Responsible Partner Policy  RPP  sets out the requirements that all our suppliers must meet to do business with us. Our RPP and its Fundamental Principles embody our commitment to responsible, transparent, and sustainable business. Each fundamental principle of the RPP provides guidance on what we expect from our responsible and sustainable suppliers. We are committed to working with our suppliers on a journey of continuous improvement. We also verify alignment to and implementation of the RPPs mandatory requirements using supplier self- declarations, online assessments and independent verification, including third-party audits which are performed for designated high-risk countries and supplier types. 52 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED We have also updated our global progress on raising awareness about Human Rights with Suppliers in the Unilever Modern Slavery Statement 2024  https   www.unilever.com files 2326fa58-7615- 4d9e-97db-60e77ff63730 unilever-modern-slavery- stat ement-2024.pdf   Category% of value chain partners  by value of business done with such partners  that were assessed Sexual harassment We conduct periodic risk assessments of our suppliers using country risk and commodity risk data from external third-party risk data providers. As of 31st March, 2025, 94.3% of the suppliers  by value of business done  have undergone risk assessment and are compliant.Discrimination at the workplace Child labour Forced labour  involuntary labour WagesLI-5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks concerns arising from the assessments at Question 4 above. During the reporting period, no significant risks concerns were identified in the assessment of our suppliers. We expect our partners and their employees or contractors to report actual or suspected breaches of our RPP. We will investigate any non-conformity reported in good faith and discuss findings with the partner. If remediation is needed, we work with the partner to identify the root cause of the issue and to develop a time-bound corrective action plan to resolve the failure effectively and promptly. By working with partners to overcome any issues, we support the betterment of their business and, most importantly, promote respect for human rights. We conduct regular audits, and both third-party audit companies and suppliers are responsible for continuously updating us with the audit outcome on a digital system. Audit companies are mandated to report the audit documentation and the outcome of the initial and follow-up audits, while suppliers are mandated to report corrective actions and progress against each non-conformance identified, both within certain specified timeframes. 53 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREPRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESSES SHOULD RESPECT AND MAKE EFFORTS TO PROTECT AND RESTORE THE ENVIRONMENT  HUL recognises climate change as a significant threat to both people and the planet, as well as a material risk to their business. To address this challenge, HUL has set ambitious climate targets and is committed to delivering impact faster through focussed, urgent, and systemic actions. We are committed to reducing emissions within our operations by transitioning to renewable energy, enhancing energy efficiency, and reducing Scope 3 emissions through materials transition. 97 % Energy consumed from renewable sources 39 % Reduction in Scope 1 emissions from previous yearPlatinum-AWS Certification Chhindwara HUL Factory Zero Scope 2 emissions  net   At HUL, we have a robust process to capture environment data across our manufacturing sites and offices, which is the basis for the numbers reported in Principle 6 The Purchasing Power Parity  PPP  conversion rate used in intensity ratio calculations across Principle 6 is 20.66 for financial year 2024-25 and same is updated for previous year 54 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED At HUL, energy efficiency is integral to our operational excellence, underpinning our commitment to climate action as the cornerstone of our ESG strategy. By prioritising emissions reduction, waste management, and water conservation, we are driving sustainable growth and pioneering a resilient future for all. Our strategic initiatives and innovative partnerships ensure we lead the way in sustainability, creating long-term value for our stakeholders and contributing to a healthier planet. Yogesh Mishra Executive Director, Supply Chain ESSENTIAL INDICATORS EI-1. Details of total energy consumption  in joules or multiples  and energy intensity, in the following format  At HUL we have been continuously working towards reducing the environmental impact across our operations. Refer to our Climate Action page to know more about our key initiatives  https   www.hul.co.in sustaina bility climate  Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 From renewable sources Total electricity consumption  Gigajoules  A   12,25,671 11,86,957 Total fuel consumption  Gigajoules  B  22,19,234 23,83,647 Energy consumption through other sources  Gigajoules  C  - - Total energy consumption  Gigajoules  A B C  34,44,905 35,70,604 From non-renewable sources Total electricity consumption  D  - - Total fuel consumption  E  1,02,998 1,54,980 Energy consumption through other sources  F  4,131 1,019 Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources  D E F  1,07,129 1,55,999 Total energy consumed  A B C D E F  35,52,034 37,26,603 Energy intensity per rupee of turnover  Total energy consumed revenue from operations 57.7 GJ crore 61.7 GJ crore Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity  PPP   Total energy consumed revenue from operations adjusted for PPP 1,193 GJ   $ crore 1,276 GJ   $ crore Energy intensity in terms of physical output 1.10 GJ tonne 1.19 GJ tonne  Sources of renewable electricity include solar energy, wind energy and offsets though International Renewable Energy Certificates  IREC  purchased for grid electricity 8% Reduction in energy intensity per tonne vs previous year 55 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREEI-1. Indicate if any independent assessment evaluation assurance has been carried out by an external agency  yes no   If yes, name of the external agency. Yes, reasonable assurance has been conducted by M s B S R   Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants. EI-2. Does the entity have any sites facilities identified as designated consumers  DCs  under the Performance, Achieve and Trade  PAT  scheme of the Government of India  yes no   If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any Not applicable, as we are not an energy-intensive industry as outlined under the Performance, Achieve and Trade  PAT  scheme of the Government of India. EI-3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format  We are addressing water scarcity through conservation, restoration, recharge, and reuse of water. In this pursuit, at the community level, we have implemented Water Stewardship Projects across 15 water-stressed locations  as per ground water resources and the World Resources Institute  in India. At our manufacturing sites, we have reduced our water usage by 50% compared to the 2008 baseline. This achievement is due to our focus on reducing abstraction, implementing rainwater harvesting, and maximising the use of RO plants. This has helped us in increased efficiencies, risk reduction, and stronger stakeholder relationships. We have also embarked on a journey to align our Water Stewardship Programme to the Alliance for Water Stewardship  AWS  standard. AWS is a global membership bringing together businesses, NGOs, and the public sector. In the International Water Stewardship Standard, members uphold local water- resource sustainability through their adoption and promotion of a universal framework, this standardises good water stewardship practices, driving recognition and rewarding performance. The Chhindwara HUL Factory has achieved Platinum-level AWS Certification in financial year 2024-25. We set up the Hindustan Unilever Foundation  HUF  in 2010 to support and amplify scalable solutions that can help address Indias water challenges - specifically for rural communities that intersect with agriculture. HUF established its Water for Public Good programme, which is anchored in the belief that water is a common good and must be governed by citizen communities. The aim was to catalyse effective solutions to Indias water challenges involving the government, communities, experts, and mission-based organisations. HUFs programs have reached over 15,500 villages since inception and have enabled creation of a cumulative and collective water potential of over 3.9 trillion litres  since its inception. To underscore the importance of the water potential created by HUF, 3.9 trillion litres of water is the quantity required to meet the drinking water needs of Indias population for nearly two years. HUF also supports several knowledge initiatives in water conservation and governance. We also have project Prabhat, our sustainable community initiative that has been implementing water conservation projects in water-stressed sites across the country. We constructed water conservation structures, such as check dams, farm ponds, farm bunds, and water absorption trenches in programme villages to enhance access to water. The programme also supports agricultural communities with water conservation solutions to help them achieve better water efficiency. Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Water withdrawal by source  in kilolitres   i  Surface water 200 -  ii  Groundwater 20,24,990 21,63,447  iii  Third party water 8,11,232 8,14,723  iv  Seawater desalinated water - -  v  Others  Rain Water  71,299 52,486 Total volume of water withdrawal  in kilolitres   i ii iii iv v  29,07,721 30,30,656 Total volume of water consumption  in kilolitres  28,77,728 29,69,699 Water intensity per rupee of turnover  Water consumed turnover in rupees  46.8 KL   crore 49.2 KL   crore Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity  PPP   Total water consumption revenue from operations adjusted for PPP 966 KL   $crore 1,017 KL   $crore Water intensity in terms of physical output 0.89 KL   tonne 0.95 KL   tonne  Assured by an independent external firm 56 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED EI-3. Indicate if any independent assessment evaluation assurance has been carried out by an external agency  yes no   If yes, name of the external agency Yes, reasonable assurance has been conducted by M s B S R   Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants. EI-4. Provide the following details related to water discharged  Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Water discharge by destination and level of treatment  in kilolitres    i  To surface water - No treatment - - - With treatment - -  ii  To groundwater - No treatment - - - With treatment - -  iii  To seawater - No treatment - - - With treatment - -  iv  Sent to third-parties - No treatment - - - With treatment  secondary treatment  29,993 60,957  v  Others - No treatment - - - With treatment - - Total water discharged  in kilolitres  29,993 60,957 Wastewater is treated in the Companys own effluent treatment plants through secondary treatment and then discharged in line with consent requirements of the Pollution Control Board  Water discharge has been reported for owned manufacturing sites 57 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREEI-4. Indicate if any independent assessment evaluation assurance has been carried out by an external agency  yes no   If yes, name of the external agency Yes, reasonable assurance has been conducted by M s B S R   Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants. EI- 5. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge  If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation. We focus on maximising recycling and reusing treated wastewater on-site, effectively reducing the need for freshwater intake. As of 31st March, 2025, 25 out of 27 of our factories are Zero Liquid Discharge, i.e. they recycle and reuse 100% of their wastewater within the site. Such recycled water is used in cooling towers, as a boiler feed, in fire tanks, external area cleaning, toilet flushing, and gardening. The remaining two factories discharge water in common effluent treatment plants  CETP  municipal drainages as per the consent to operate conditions issued by the Pollution Control Board. EI- 6. Please provide details of air emissions  other than GHG emissions  by the entity, in the following format  Parameter  Please specify unit FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 NOx MT 278 312 SOx MT 132 161 Particulate matter  PM  MT or mg Nm3278 MT 51 mg Nm3 Persistent organic pollutants  POP  MT - NA Volatile organic compounds  VOC  MT 574 NA Hazardous air pollutants  HAP  MT - NA  POP, VOC   HAP were not included in the Factorys Consent to Operate issued by the pollution control board and therefore not applicable for financial year 2023-24 Pollutants are calculated using the IPCC EMEP EEA Guidebook 2023 factors for NOx, SOx, PM, and VOC. HAP   POP have been updated to zero based on emission test reports for financial year 2024-25 EI- 6. Indicate if any independent assessment evaluation assurance has been carried out by an external agency  yes no   If yes, name of the external agency. Yes, an independent assurance has been conducted by M s B S R   Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants. EI-7. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions  Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions    its intensity, in the following format  To reduce our carbon footprint, we are investing in new technologies, switching to renewable sources, and innovating to transform our factory operations. Refer to our https   www.hul.co.in sustaina bility climate  Parameter Unit FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Total Scope 1 emissions tCO2e8,944 14,622 Total Scope 2 emissions tCO2eGross  2,23,923 Net  0  Gross  2,20,234 Net  96   Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions  tCO2e 8,944 14,718 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of turnover tCO2e crore 0.15 0.24 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity  PPP tCO2e $crore 3.0 5.0 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of physical outputtCO2e tonne 0.003 0.005   We report our emissions with reference to the latest Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard  GHG Protocol . Energy conversion and emission factors are used as per the UNs Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change  IPCC    The above numbers are after deducting the International Renewable Energy Certificates  IREC  purchased for grid electricity 58 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED EI-7. Indicate if any independent assessment evaluation assurance has been carried out by an external agency  yes no   If yes, name of the external agency Yes, reasonable assurance has been conducted by M s B S R   Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants. EI-8. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission  If yes, then provide details We are committed to using energy from renewable sources and at the same time reduce our energy consumption to support our goal of achieving zero emissions in our own operations. 1. Transition to Renewable Energy  We have started purchasing renewable energy through onsite solar power plants and invested in offsite windmills to reduce our reliance on grid power. Additionally, we have invested in a group captive solar power plant with a 45MW capacity, in partnership with Brookfield, to meet the daytime energy requirements of all our factories in India. 2. Substitution of Fossil Fuels  We have eliminated coal from our operations and replaced it with green fuels. Biomass has been introduced instead of coal, and biofuel is used instead of furnace oil and high-speed diesel  HSD . As of March 2025, 97% of our energy  both electrical and thermal  comes from renewable sources. All our electricity is sourced from renewable energy, including solar, wind, and IREC green certification. Additionally, 14 out of our 27 sites now meet Unilevers internal criteria for RE100. 3. Energy Efficiency  We have implemented various energy-saving projects, such as heat pumps, magnetic chillers, energy-efficient motors, variable voltage and frequency drives  VVFD , thermic fluid heaters, and energy-efficient air handling units  AHUs  to reduce overall energy consumption in our factories. We have significantly reduced our per tonne GHG emissions and energy consumption by 49% in financial year 2024-25 compared to the 2008 baseline. Our Climate Transition Action Plan outlines our strategy to achieve near-term value chain emission reduction targets, focusing on following priority action areas  Supplier Climate Programme, product reformulation, forest-risk commodities, regenerative agriculture, chemical ingredients, packaging and logistics. 59 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREEI-9. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format  We have spent many years reducing waste and recycling in our operations and we continue to look for innovative ways to eliminate and extract value from our waste streams. We continue to maintain our standard to send zero non-hazardous waste to landfill from our factories. Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Total waste generated  in metric tonnes  Plastic waste  A  12,531 12,105 E-waste  B  51 62 Bio-medical waste  C  14 12 Construction and demolition waste  D  4,013 7,800 Battery waste  E  26 53 Radioactive waste  F  - - Other hazardous waste  G   638 437 Other non-hazardous waste generated  H  73,704 82,653 Total  A B C D E F G H  90,977 1,03,122 Waste intensity per rupee of turnover  Total waste generated Revenue from operations 1.5 MT crore 1.7 MT crore Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity  PPP  30.6 MT   $crore 35.3 MT   $crore Waste intensity in terms of physical output 0.03 MT tonne 0.03 MT tonne For each category of waste generated, total waste recovered through recycling-using or other recovery operations  in metric tonnes  Category of waste  i  Recycled 53,338 59,566  ii  Re-used 35,269 43,023  iii  Other recovery operations   1,871 181 Total 90,478 1,02,770 For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method  in metric tonnes  Category of waste  i  Incineration 186 219  ii  Landfilling 313 133  iii  Other disposal operations - - Total 499 352  The hazardous waste has increased due to waste reject from Multi effect evaporators  Drum Dryer  to achieve Zero Liquid Discharge    Hazardous waste is disposed of through Pollution Control Board authorised licensed vendors in line with Consent to Operate condition. The increase in Category Other recovery operations for financial year 2024-25 compared to the previous year is due to a change in the categorisation of recycled recovered waste EI-9. Indicate if any independent assessment evaluation assurance has been carried out by an external agency  yes no   If yes, name of the external agency. Yes, reasonable assurance has been conducted by M s B S R   Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants. EI-10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes. Our zero-waste mindset means we view waste materials as valuable resources. When we cannot reduce waste, we seek ways to reuse or recycle it. In the absence of recycling infrastructure, we recover energy from waste to ensure the best routes for our waste flows, thereby strengthening our circular economy approach, improving factory operations, and reducing our environmental impact. All our factories are equipped with pre-processing facilities, such as waste segregation and source reduction, to enhance recyclability. 60 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED We are continually developing new methods to eliminate the use of hazardous chemicals in cleaning and disinfection processes by upgrading our hardware with the latest technologies. We have successfully achieved zero non-hazardous waste to landfill status across all our factories by maximising the reuse and recycling of non-hazardous waste in environmentally friendly ways. This includes reusing jumbo bags, cardboard cartons, and process waste like soap  repurposing sludge waste as boiler fuel  upcycling plastic  and using food waste for animal feed. For hazardous waste, we comply with the Hazardous and Other Wastes  Management and Transboundary Movement  Rules, 2016 and adhere to the conditions set by the State Pollution Control Boards Authorisation. Additionally, our R D teams are improving material selection and product design to reduce waste at the source. We also use recycled materials in our packaging and collect and safely dispose of more plastic waste than we sell, in line with our Extended Producer Responsibility  EPR . As a result, the total waste generated from our factories in financial year 2024-25 has decreased by 62%  per tonne of production  compared to the 2008 baseline and Hazardous has decreased by 79%  per tonne of production  compared to the 2008 baseline . EI-11. If the entity has operations offices in around ecologically sensitive areas  such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, and coastal regulation zones  where environmental approvals clearances are required, please specify details in the following format  S. no. Location of operations offices Type of operationsWhether the conditions of environmental approval clearance are being complied with   Y N  If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any. 1 Dapada  Manufacturing Yes  Notified as an ecologically sensitive area by Dadra   Nagar Haveli Planning and Development Authority in November 2023 EI-12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year  S. no.Name and brief details of project EIA Notification No. DateWhether conducted by independent external agency  yes no Results communicated in public domain  yes no Relevant web link 1 Proposed Establishment of Magnum Ice Cream Plant in the Existing HUL Nashik FactoryVoluntary  S.O. 1533- under sub- rule  3  of Rule 5 of the Environment  Protection  Rules, 1986- 14th September, 20068th July, 2024Yes  Life First Solutions Yes https   www. hul.co.in files  magnum-ice- cream-plant-eia- report-nashik- factory.pdf 2 Automated Storage and retrieval system project at Silvassa Detergents factory31st December, 2024Yes  M s. ASERIES ENVIROTEK INDIA PVT. LTD. Yes https   www.hul. co.in files asrs-hul- eia-report-dapada. pdf EI-13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law regulations  guidelines in India, such as the Water  Prevention and Control of Pollution  Act, Air  Prevention and Control of Pollution  Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder  yes no   If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format  Yes, the Companys operations and offices comply with the countrys applicable environmental laws and regulations and operate as per Consent to Operate conditions from the Central and State Pollution Control Boards. Our dedicated, trained, and qualified Environment, Health, and Safety representative at each site coordinates the overall implementation of the site environmental management system. This includes the environmental performance of individual activities, coordinating environmental matters within the organisation, advising line management in environmental matters, and contacting regulatory authorities and residents. S. no.Specify the law regulation  guidelines which was not complied withProvide details of the non-complianceAny fines penalties action taken by regulatory agencies such as pollution control boards or by courtsCorrective action taken if any 1 None 61 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURELEADERSHIP INDICATORS LI-1. Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in areas of water stress  in kilolitres    i  Name of the area  As per the Central Ground Water Authority, the below locations are in water-stressed areas  Chhindwara, Nabha, Rajpura, Sonipat, Pondicherry, Amli, Dapada, and Nashik.  ii  Nature of operations  Manufacturing  iii  Water withdrawal, consumption, and discharge in the following format  Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Water withdrawal by source  in kilolitres   i  Surface water 200 -  ii  Groundwater 10,07,973 10,63,781  iii  Third party water 2,94,769 2,76,529  iv  Seawater desalinated water - -  v  Others  Rain water  29,374 22,878 Total volume of water withdrawal  in kilolitres  13,32,316 13,63,188 Total volume of water consumption  in kilolitres  13,32,316 13,63,188 Water intensity per rupee of turnover  Water consumed turnover in rupees  21.7 KL   crore 22.6 KL   crore Water discharge by destination and level of treatment  in kilolitres   i  Into surface water - No treatment - - - With treatment - -  ii  Into groundwater - No treatment - - - With treatment - -  iii  Into seawater - No treatment - - - With treatment - -  iv  Sent to third-parties - No treatment - - - With treatment  secondary treatment  - -  v  Others - No treatment - - - With treatment - - Total water discharged  in kilolitres  - - LI-1. Indicate if any independent assessment evaluation assurance has been carried out by an external agency  yes no  If yes, name of the external agency. Yes, an independent assurance has been conducted by M s B S R   Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants. 62 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED LI-2. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions   its intensity, in the following format  Measuring GHG emissions is a significant challenge and relies on many estimates and on information from third parties. We have estimated our Scope 3 emissions across each of the 15 GHG Protocol Scope 3 emission categories relevant to our business. We measure our most material emissions from procured goods and services, using data on real volumes of procured raw materials packaging and services combined with standard emissions factors for these materials, applying the latest guidance on the use of emissions factors  IPCC AR6  and the draft GHG Protocol Land Sector guidance. Under the GHG Protocol, indirect consumer use-phase emissions are an optional part of a companys Scope 3 emissions. Our GHG emissions in scope of our Net Zero by 2039 ambition do not include these optional indirect emissions sources. Parameter Unit Jan24  Dec 24  Oct22-Sep23  Total Scope 3 emissions in scope of Net zero ambition Metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent99,62,535 87,19,253 Total Scope 3 emissions inclusive of indirect consumer use 1,13,37,855 95,82,781 Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover tCO2    crore 184.3 158.8  The period of Scope 3 emissions is from 1st January, 2024 to 31st December, 2024 for this year and 1st October, 2022 to 30th September, 2023 for previous year LI-2. Indicate if any independent assessment evaluation assurance has been carried out by an external agency  yes no  If yes, name of the external agency. No LI-3. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 11 of essential indicators above, provide details of significant direct   indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities. We have duly complied with the conditions laid down by the Dadra   Nagar Haveli Planning and Development Authority. During financial year 2024-25, there was no significant impact on biodiversity due to our manufacturing operations. LI-4. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions effluent discharge waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format  S. No.Initiative undertakenDetails of the initiative  web-link, if any, may be provided along-with summary  Outcome of the initiative 1 Water StewardshipActive water stewardship programs are ongoing in all our factories. Through this, we are not only reducing water consumption but are also enhancing the resilience to water- related challenges. To cite a few examples, at our Doom Dooma factory, through rooftop rainwater harvesting and modular filtering systems, we capture nearly 100% of rainfall for high- quality water reuse in production. With over 65,963 KL collected and reused in four years, borewell extractions have decreased significantly. In HULs Chhindwara factory, we have installed a 15,000KL rainwater storage pond and five harvesting pits within the factory premises. These significantly reduce reliance on external water sources, whereas off-site efforts include the construction of stop dams and recharge structures to reduce groundwater consumption and promote community engagement. Further, some of our technology and digital interventions within the factory include the following -  Digital ETP  Digitised parameter monitoring, streamlined processes, and reduced incoming load  Closed Circuit Reverse Osmosis  CCRO  water treatment technology to reuse treated water from the Effluent Treatment Plant  ETP  in cooling towers, thereby conserving water resources.  Solar panel cleaning robots that eliminate the need for water consumption  Steam and Water Conservation through Flash Steam Recovery and Efficiency OptimisationOur own manufacturing operations have witnessed a 50% reduction in water usage  cubic meter per tonne of production  in financial year 2024-25 as compared to the 2008 baseline. We were able to achieve this by focusing on reducing freshwater abstraction, implementing captive rainwater harvesting, and maximising the use of RO plants. The benefits include increased efficiencies, reduced risks, strengthening stakeholder relationships and building community trust. HUL has been honored with several prestigious external recognitions, including   Platinum Level Certification by the Alliance for Water Stewardship.  Excellence in Water Management Award 2024 by the Confederation of Indian Industry  CII  for HUL Prabhat 63 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURES. No.Initiative undertakenDetails of the initiative  web-link, if any, may be provided along-with summary  Outcome of the initiative We set up the Hindustan Unilever Foundation  HUF  in 2010 to support and amplify scalable solutions that can help address Indias water challenges - specifically for rural communities that intersect with agriculture. HUF established its Water for Public Good programme that is anchored in the belief that water is a common good and must be governed by citizen communities. The aim was to catalyse effective solutions to Indias water challenges involving the government, communities, experts, and mission- based organisations. HUFs programs have reached over 15,500 villages since inception. HUF also supports several knowledge initiatives in water conservation and governance. We also have project Prabhat our sustainable community initiative that has been implementing water conservation projects in water-stressed sites across the country, focusing on ensuring water security. Water conservation structures, such as check dams, farm ponds, farm bunds, water absorption trenches were constructed in programme villages to enhance access to water. The programme also supports agricultural communities with water conservation solutions helping in achieving better water efficiency. We have implemented Water Stewardship Projects outside the factory boundaries across 15 water-stressed locations in India, as identified by groundwater resources and the World Resources Institute  WRI . Please refer https   www.hul.co.in sustainability improve-the-health-of- the-planet  for more details.HUF along with its partners has enabled creation of cumulative and collective water potential of over 3.9 trillion litres . To underscore the importance of the water potential created by HUF, 3.9 trillion litres of water can meet the drinking water needs of Indias population for nearly two years. 2 Emissions We are committed to taking steps to collectively and positively address climate change. We have started purchasing renewable energy through onsite solar power plants and invested in offsite windmills to reduce our reliance on grid power. Additionally, we have invested in a group captive solar power plant with a 45MW capacity, in partnership with Brookfield, to meet the daytime energy requirements of all our factories in India. All our electricity is sourced from renewable energy, including solar, wind, and IREC green certification. We have eliminated coal from our operations and replaced it with green fuels. Biomass has been introduced instead of coal, and biofuel is used instead of furnace oil and high-speed diesel  HSD . Additionally, 14 out of our 27 sites now meet Unilevers internal criteria for RE100. We have implemented various energy-saving projects, such as heat pumps, magnetic chillers, energy-efficient motors, variable voltage and frequency drives  VVFD , thermic fluid heaters, and energy-efficient air handling units  AHUs , to reduce overall energy consumption in our factories We have implemented Digital Energy Management System  EMS  and Boiler Hub insights to optimise energy consumption and improve boiler efficiency through advanced digital solutions. Please refer https   www.hul.co.in sustainability climate  for more detailsAs on March 2025, the renewable energy percentage  for both Electrical and Thermal combined  is 97% for our own manufacturing sites. We have significantly reduced our per tonne GHG emission by 99% and energy consumption by 49% in our own manufacturing operations in financial year 2024-25 compared to 2008 baseline. Additionally, HUL has been honored with several prestigious external recognitions, including   The National Energy Conservation Award by the Ministry of Power, Government of India.  The Best Boiler Award 2024 by the Directorate of Steam Boilers, Labour Department, Maharashtra State Government.  The National Energy Efficiency Circle Award 2024 by the Confederation of Indian Industry  CII . 3 Waste Our factories have identified innovative ways to reuse various non-hazardous waste streams and maintain the status of zero non-hazardous waste to landfills in factories and offices across the Company. This was done by maximising the reuse and recycling of all non-hazardous waste in environmentally friendly ways. We have also taken the initiative to eliminate food waste by commissioning a dewatering screw press and sludge drying beds on-site for dewatering and drying of sludge with an intent to use it as a boiler fuel. Please refer https   www.hul.co.in  sustainability plastics  for more detailsThe total waste generated from the factories was 62%  per tonne of production  lower in our own manufacturing operations in financial year 2024-25 than the 2008 baseline. All our factories are equipped with pre-processing facilities, such as waste separation and waste reduction at the source, thus improving recyclability. Additionally, HUL has been honored with several prestigious external recognitions, including Greentech PCWR Award for Pollution Control and waste management by Green Tech Energy  Assured by an external independent firm 64 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED LI-5. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan  Give details in 100 words web link. We have a standardised procedure to maintain business continuity and ensure robust and effective management of incidents. It is based on the principles of prevention, preparedness, response, and recovery. We follow a risk- based approach to identify credible business risks and review the management plan regularly to ensure that it is up-to-date and effective. We incorporate advanced cyber considerations into our existing Business Continuity Plan to strengthen resilience against cyber threats. This includes conducting regular cybersecurity risk assessments, developing comprehensive incident response plans, enhancing network security, and providing ongoing employee training. In addition, to safeguard our data and IT systems, we have a Data Recovery Capability Standard for designing, operating and managing any device or technology solution that stores or processes our data. The purpose of this standard is to specify controls to ensure that our data, applications, and systems can be recovered to meet business operational requirements following a disruptive cyber incident. LI-6. Disclose any significant adverse impact on the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard  We have set sustainability targets, serving as our strategy to deliver consistent, competitive, profitable, and responsible growth. We have set an ambitious sustainability agenda to tackle the issues that our consumers and stakeholders care deeply about. The details of our mitigation measures can be reviewed on the following websites  https   www.hul.co.in sustainability  climate  and https   www.hul.co.in sustaina bility nature  Our plan to progress towards our near-term value chain emission reduction targets has following priority action areas which include Supplier Climate Programme, reformulating products, forest-risk commodities, regenerative agriculture, chemical ingredients, packaging and logistics. LI-7. Percentage of value chain partners  by value of business done with such partners  that were assessed for environmental impacts. We conduct periodic risk assessments of our suppliers using country risk and commodity risk data from external third-party risk data providers. As of 31st March, 2025, 94.3% of the suppliers  by value of business done  have undergone risk assessment and are compliant. Our RPP and its Fundamental Principles embody our commitment to responsible, transparent, and sustainable business. Each fundamental principle of the RPP provides guidance on what we expect from responsible and sustainable business partners. We are committed to working with our suppliers on this journey of continuous improvement. We also verify alignment to and implementation of the RPPs mandatory requirements using supplier self-declarations, online assessments and independent verification, including third-party audits which are performed for designated high-risk countries and supplier types. LI-8. How many Green Credits have been generated  a. By the listed entity  In financial year 2024-25, HUL through its CSR programs under Regenerative Agriculture goal, has started a Verified emission reduction  VER  program. HUL has been doing impactful work through our existing agricultural linked programs, which ensured significant increase in crop production owing to resilient regenerative and sustainable agricultural practices, leading to increased net income for farmers. VER programme will go one step further and HUL will map and record the carbon footprint reduction through improved agricultural practices clubbed with agro forestry. b. By the top ten  in terms of value of purchases and sales, respectively  value chain partners  Not available. 65 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREPRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESSES, WHEN ENGAGING IN INFLUENCING PUBLIC AND REGULATORY POLICY, SHOULD DO SO IN A MANNER THAT IS RESPONSIBLE AND TRANSPARENT We are committed to enhancing lives and fostering a sustainable future through ethical and transparent interactions, as well as advocacy efforts with government bodies. Our initiatives address environmental sustainability, waste management, resource efficiency, health and hygiene, and inclusive growth. By collaborating with diverse stakeholders, we aim to create a ripple effect of positive change, empowering all stakeholders to make informed choices and contribute to a better world. Through our advocacy efforts, we strive to enhance policy and create a supportive environment for sustainable practices, ensuring that our actions are aligned with the highest standards of integrity and transparency. 10 Affiliations with national state level trade and industry chambers associationsNil Instances of anticompetitive conduct 66 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED We aim to engage with government entities to potentially expedite various initiatives, enhance the ease of doing business, and explore partnerships that could drive systemic change. Our objective is to consider ways to streamline processes for the industry, aiming for a level playing field that align with the interests of all stakeholders. By collaborating with governmental bodies, we hope to identify effective policies and frameworks that could support growth, ensuring that our efforts would lead to meaningful impact across the industry. Vipul Mathur Executive Director, Personal Care ESSENTIAL INDICATORS EI-1. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers associations. We are affiliated with 10 trade and industry chambers associations. EI-1. b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers associations  determined based on the total members of such body  the entity is a member of affiliated to S. No. Name of the trade and industry chambers associationsReach of trade and industry chambers associations  state national  1 Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry  FICCI  National 2 Confederation of Indian Industry  CII  National 3 Indian Beauty and Hygiene Association  IBHA  National 4 Bombay Chamber of Commerce   Industry State 5 Bengal Chamber of Commerce   Industry State 6 Protein Food Nutrition Development Association of India  PFNDAI  National 7 Public Affairs Forum of India  PAFI  National 8 European Business Group, India National 9 Indian Home   Personal Care Industry Association  IHPCIA  National 10 Sustainable Palm Oil Coalition of India National EI-2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti- competitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities. During the year, there were no adverse orders from regulatory authorities relating to anti-competitive conduct. S. no. Name of authority Brief of the case Corrective action taken 1 Nil Nil Nil LEADERSHIP INDICATORS LI-1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity  S. No. Public policy advocatedMethods resorted for such advocacyWhether information available in public domain  yes no  Frequency of Review by Board  annually  half yearly quarterly  others  please specify Web link, if available We participate in multi-stakeholder engagements and, when relevant, respond to public consultations. Our approach to advocacy is guided by the Code of Business Principles  CoBP . The Code provides that any contact by us or our business associates with Government, legislators, regulators or NGOs must be done with honesty, integrity, openness and in compliance with applicable laws. Only authorised individuals can interact with these institutions. Prior internal approval is required for initiating any contact between us, our representatives, and officials, aimed at proactively addressing changes  suggestions to regulation or legislation.We are represented in key industry and business associations. We perform policy advocacy in a transparent and responsible manner while engaging with all the authorities considering ours as well as the larger national interest.No NA NA 67 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREPRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESSES SHOULD PROMOTE INCLUSIVE GROWTH AND EQUITABLE DEVELOPMENT We are dedicated to fostering a workplace that celebrates diversity and promotes inclusivity. By empowering our employees from various backgrounds, we ensure that their unique perspectives contribute to our innovation and progress. Our commitment to diversity within our workforce is reflected in our hiring practices, professional development programs, and employee engagement initiatives. Additionally, we are committed to the inclusion of diverse communities as key stakeholders, ensuring that representation of diverse communities is integral to our success and growth. By creating an environment where every community feels valued and heard, we build a stronger, more resilient organisation that thrives on the collective strengths of our diverse team. 17.9 % of all goods, services and capex sourced from MSMEs Nil Projects undertaken requiring Rehabilitation and Resettlement95.6 % of all goods, services and capex sourced from within India 32.9 crores CSR Spends in Aspirational Districts 68 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED We are committed to cultivating an equitable workforce and ensuring diverse community representation. By valuing and amplifying every voice, we not only drive our success but also contribute to a more inclusive and unbiased society. Through these efforts, we aim to build a future where equity and representation are at the forefront of our mission, creating lasting positive change. Harman Dhillon Executive Director, Beauty   Wellbeing ESSENTIAL INDICATORS EI-1. Details of Social Impact Assessments  SIA  of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year. During financial year 2024-25, we have not undertaken any projects that require Social Impact Assessments  SIA . S. no.Name and brief details of projectSIA Notification No.Date of notificationWhether conducted by independent external agency  yes no Results communicated in public domain  yes no Relevant web link 1 Not applicable EI-2. Provide information on project s  for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement  R R  is being undertaken by your entity, in the following format  During financial year 2024-25, we have not undertaken any projects that require Rehabilitation and Resettlement  R R . S. no.Name of Project for which R R is ongoing State DistrictNo. of Project Affected Families  PAFs % of PAFs covered by R RAmounts paid to PAFs in the FY  In   1 Not applicable EI-3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community. With regards to grievance redressal for communities, we have various programs on ground to address the respective concerns listed below  Water in Agriculture  The programs are being implemented by our NGO partners. The field teams engage with community comprising primarily of members from vulnerable communities. They address issues on water and agriculture covering water access, use efficiency, productivity enhancement, income generation among others. The mechanism of addressing is through group formation of Paani Panchayats, Jal Saheli collectivisation, engagement with panchayat or block functionaries with involvement of field cadres. Most often the field cadres are first point of contact who helps in addressing any concerns or issues and as required these are escalated to field teams at program, block or district level for its resolution. Prabhat  Prabhat is committed to developing communities around our manufacturing sites where we have our CSR community development programs ongoing. The HR and CSR team members regularly visit the villages nearby to understand the communitys requirements as well as grievances. The CSR team has also conducted formal community need assessment to understand such requirements. Based on these inputs, CSR programs are designed and executed year on year to enhance the social value creation efforts. This helps to build a positive relationship with the community and address their concerns effectively. There are several community-based organisations that have been set up. These CBOs have a strong representation from all sections of the society including women   marginalised groups. These groups meet periodically and identify any issues impacting them. As a group, they then connect with the implementing partners. If required, they also engage with the factory team at site to express their concerns. The OPD centers under health programme also have contact details for any feedback. SAFAL focussed on empowering youth and marginalised groups, including women and persons with disabilities  PWDs , SAFAL aims to bridge Indias livelihood gap in sales and retail through skilling, entrepreneurship 69 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREand employability. SAFAL is targeting 21 states and 78 aspirational districts across India. To enhance transparency, accessibility, and efficiency in handling community grievances, a Google Form-based Grievance Redressal Mechanism is in place at the training center. This system allows beneficiaries to submit concerns easily for systematic review and resolution. Additionally, POSH training is provided, supported by an active committee across all centers. WASH  Accelerating progress on the Swachh Bharat Mission  SBM  2.0 Urban and Sustainable Development Goals, HUL set up Suvidha  as a first-of-its-kind urban hygiene and sanitation community centre providing affordable access to clean toilets, purified drinking water, showers, and laundry services to over 5 lakh people residing in informal settlements in Mumbai. Suvidhas operation is 100% digitised and if the community has any concerns related to the operations or the quality of the service, the community can raise the concern directly via an app which is accessible by the community through a QR code printed on their passes which is accessible in 3 languages to the users free of cost. An email is automatically sent to the SUVIDHA operations team ensuring quality of response in a timely manner. The concerns are typically resolved within 48 hours. EI-4. Percentage of input material  inputs to total inputs by value  sourced from suppliers  Category FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Directly sourced from MSMEs small producers 17.9% 22.7%  Directly from within India 95.6% 92.7%  For financial year 2024-45, input material also included services and capex procured in addition to raw materials and packaging materials, while financial year 2023-24 included only raw material and packaging materials. Therefore, the change in the percentage in comparison to reported previous year percentage is primarily attributable to the inclusion of services and capital expenditures under input materials. The comparative percentage based on the revised methodology is 18.3%. EI-5. Job creation in smaller towns  Disclose wages paid to persons employed  including employees or workers employed on a permanent or non-permanent on contract basis  in the following locations, as % of total wage cost. Location FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Rural 32.4% 31.2% Semi-urban 6.7% 6.3% Urban 7.2% 6.8% Metropolitan 53.7% 55.7% The reporting boundary for the above table is employees and workers represented in Section A  IV 20 LEADERSHIP INDICATORS LI-1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments  Reference  Question 1 of Essential Indicators above   It is not applicable as there was no Social Impact Assessment required to be conducted during financial year 2024-25. S. no. Details of negative social impact identified Corrective action taken 1 Not applicable LI-2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified by government bodies  We are dedicated to contributing to the socio-economic development of aspirational districts identified by Niti Aayog. These districts have been selected based on their need for focussed interventions to improve various development indicators. Below is an overview of our CSR projects undertaken in these districts, highlighting our efforts to maximise investment and impact. S. no. State Aspirational districtAmount spent  In   1 Multiple Multiple  16,81,38,670 2 Bihar Muzaffarpur 3,55,61,889 3 Maharashtra Osmanabad 3,37,51,543 4 Uttarakhand Haridwar 2,19,40,285 5 Kerala Wayanad 1,37,22,209 6 Chhattisgarh Bastar 1,21,79,450 7 Uttar Pradesh Unnao 1,19,28,920 8 Chhattisgarh Kanker 1,13,64,763 9 Chhattisgarh Sukma 1,05,89,190 10 Chhattisgarh Kondagaon 1,01,69,126 Total 32,93,46,045  100 out of the 112 aspirational districts notified by the NITI Aayog Total 109 districts covered through our programs 70 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED Our CSR projects in aspirational districts have led to significant improvements in water and waste management, livelihood opportunities and other areas. These initiatives have not only enhanced the quality of life for beneficiaries but also contributed to the overall sustainable development of the regions. By strategically focusing our investments while leveraging partnerships in these districts, we have been able to maximise the impact of our CSR initiatives. We remain committed to continuing our efforts in these districts, working closely with our partners and stakeholders to ensure sustainable and inclusive growth. LI-3. a. Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalised vulnerable groups  yes no   No. LI-3. b. From which marginalised  vulnerable groups do you procure  Not applicable. LI-3. c. What percentage of total procurement  by value  does it constitute  Not applicable. LI-4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity  in the current financial year , based on traditional knowledge  Not applicable.LI-5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved. Not applicable. LI-6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects We are committed to operating and growing our business in a socially responsible way. Our purpose is to make sustainable living commonplace while firmly believing that Whats good for India is good for HUL. In our commitment towards CSR, we have prioritised the inclusion and support of vulnerable groups in all our projects. Our approach is rooted in understanding and addressing the unique challenges faced by these communities, ensuring that our initiatives are both inclusive and impactful. We have identified vulnerable groups as women, children, elderly, differently-abled persons, small and marginal farmers and others. These groups are part of our project planning and implementation processes. By conducting thorough needs assessments and engaging with community stakeholders, we have tailored our projects to meet their specific needs. Regular consultations with community have helped us to understand their needs and incorporate their feedback into project design. To ensure this, providing capacity building and infrastructure to empower vulnerable groups and enabling them to take an active role in the projects is always at the core of our belief. Our inclusive approach has led to significant positive outcomes, including improved livelihoods, enhanced access to development infrastructure, and greater community cohesion. We remain committed to continuously evaluating and refining our projects to ensure they effectively address the evolving needs of vulnerable groups. S. no. CSR projectNo. of persons benefitted from CSR projects% of beneficiaries from vulnerable and marginalised groups 1 Prabhat 12,21,629 95 2 Nutrition 10,59,759 100 3 Shakti 13,88,989 40 4 Swasthya Ki Baat 3,82,369 100 5 Tea Estates  Women Safety and Livelihoods Program 3,95,714 80 6 Hindustan Unilever Foundation  Programs 3,79,001 75 7 Road Safety - Truck Drivers 20,96,000 10 8 Suvidha 5,00,000 40 9 Plastics 3,86,246 42 10 SAFAL 1,94,242 30 11 Other Projects  10  25,742 81 In addition to the above, we also run several behavioural change programs across all media channels which has a widespread reach 71 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREPRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESSES SHOULD ENGAGE WITH AND PROVIDE VALUE TO THEIR CONSUMERS IN A RESPONSIBLE MANNER. We have enhanced customer experiences through advanced support systems. We leverage digital tools to provide seamless and personalised interactions, ensuring convenience and satisfaction. By focusing on customer support technologies, we aim to deliver exceptional service and build lasting relationships with our customers. We are committed to protecting our digital infrastructure from cyber threats. We employ robust cybersecurity measures to safeguard customer data and ensure secure transactions. By continuously monitoring and updating our security protocols, we aim to prevent cyber attacks and maintain the trust of our customers. Nil Data breaches involving personal identifiable information Nil Consumer complaints on data privacy, cyber-security, delivery of essential services, restrictive trade practices, unfair trade practicesNil Product recalls on account of safety issues 100 % Products with labelling on environmental and social parameters 72 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED At HUL, our commitment to excellence drives us to not only deliver superior products but also to protect our consumers personal information with the highest standards of security. We understand that customer satisfaction is deeply intertwined with data privacy and robust customer support. By fostering trust through transparent practices and responsive support, we build enduring relationships with our customers, ensuring their needs are met with care and integrity. Rajneet Kohli Executive Director, Foods ESSENTIAL INDICATORS EI-1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback. Our procedures for addressing consumer complaints and feedback are meticulously structured and customer-centric, focusing on providing swift responses and timely resolutions to customer inquiries, feedback, and complaints. Customers can reach out to us through different channels as listed below   Toll-free Number  1800-120-2088  E-mail  levercare.custom er unilever.com  WhatsApp chatbot  8655307496 We have a specialised team for managing customer complaints and concerns. Upon receipt of a customer concern through any communication channel, a unique complaint reference or ticket number is promptly provided to the customer, along with the details of the registered complaint. Subsequently, our Support team initiates detailed discussions with the customer within 24 hours of receiving the complaint. Each complaint is governed by a Service Level Agreement  SLA , ensuring the responsible party delivers an appropriate resolution within the specified timeframe. After the resolution, we ask our customers to indicate their level of satisfaction using three criteria  Satisfied, Neutral, and Not Satisfied. This feedback mechanism enables us to validate the effectiveness of our customer service solutions while significantly contributing to the continuous improvement of our customer service processes. EI-2. Turnover of products and services as a percentage of turnover from all products  services that carry information about  CategoryAs a percentage to total turnover  Environmental and social parameters relevant to the product 100%  Safe and responsible usage 100%  Recycling and or safe disposal 100%   All artworks are checked, by brand, legal and other compliance functions on all required parameters, approved and maintained digitally on an internal system . This includes, but not limited to, Lever Care Details, Dustman logo, Material identification number and Best before Use by or Directions for Use Caution Statement. These are in line with Cosmetic Rules 2020, wherever applicable 73 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSUREEI-3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following  FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Received during the yearPending resolution at end of year RemarksReceived during the yearPending resolution at end of year Remarks Data privacy - - - - Advertising 4 - 18 - Cybersecurity - - - - Delivery of essential services - - - - Restrictive trade practices - - - - Unfair trade practices - - - - Other - - - - We have a very robust mechanism to receive and address queries, feedback and complaints received from our consumers EI-4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues We have a stringent mandatory quality standard in place against which compliance is verified through regular audits and self-assessments. These standards ensure we design, manufacture, and supply safe, excellent quality products and conform to the relevant industry and regulatory standards. Comprehensive management procedures are in place to mitigate risks and protect our consumers and markets. We take prompt and timely action wherever and whenever we encounter products which do not meet the standards and ensuring that the right quality product enters the market. Category Number Reasons for recall Voluntary recalls Nil - Forced recalls Nil - EI-5. Does the entity have a framework  policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy  yes no   If available, provide a web-link of the policy. Yes, we have extensive cybersecurity and data privacy policies applicable to the entire organisation. We respect the privacy of all individuals, including employees, consumers and our partners and protect their personal data appropriately. We recognise and protect privacy as an essential human right under our Code of Business Principles, which is available on our website at https   www.hul.co.in investors corporate- gover nance policies  We also have specific code policies governing the organisation and our employees when dealing with the Personal Data and Privacy of individuals. We have been proactive in preparing for being compliant with the DPDPA  Digital Personal Data Protection Act  2023. We have focussed learning modules on the Code Policy on Personal Data, which is mandatory for the entire organisation. We regularly train the workforce on the Personal Data Code Policy  general privacy principles, practices, processes, and behaviour . We also have training on handling sensitive personal data for HR functions handling such data. In addition, we disclose a Privacy Notice pertaining to our data processing practices to consumers before they consent to process their personal data. The Privacy Notice proactively discloses all the relevant information necessary to make an informed choice, including but not limited to types of data, purposes, security safeguards, principal data rights, contact details of the Data Privacy Officer and grievance redressal mechanisms, retention, and third-party disclosure policies. For more details refer to  https   www.unilevernotices.com privacy-notices  india -english.html . We also have a designated Data Privacy Officer, whose key responsibility is to ensure data privacy guidelines are followed in the organisation and any privacy related grievances are being addressed. We have disclosed the details of the DPO externally on our website in the Privacy Section at  https   www.hul.c o.in contact  . We have a central e-mail ID, i.e., grievance.officer-privacy  unilever.com , which is disclosed in the privacy notices and on our website. There is also a Contact Us form for privacy issues that is directed to the Data Privacy Office. Our Responsible Partner Policy, which applies to all third parties, includes an obligation to protect and safeguard personal data involving our consumers and customers. 74 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED EI-6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising, and delivery of essential services  cybersecurity and data privacy of customers  reoccurrence of instances of product recalls  penalty  action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products services. No significant concerns complaints penalties regulatory actions were identified during the year. However, in case of any concerns, consumers can reach out to us via multiple channels, i.e., phone, e-mail, social media, and WhatsApp. We have a pre-defined turnaround time and response mechanism for complaint closure. For data privacy-related concerns, we have a Personal Data Incident Reporting process to report and investigate any suspected or potential threat to personal data. The Data Privacy Officer and Cyber Security Lead investigate incidents to identify lapses and gaps to continuously improve processes and controls to mitigate future breaches.EI-7. Provide the following information relating to data breaches  a. Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact Nil, there were no instances of reportable data breaches in the current financial year. b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers Nil, there were no instances of reportable data breaches involving personally identifiable information. c. Impact, if any, of the data breaches Not applicable as there were no reportable data breaches for the year. 75 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Section C - PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURELEADERSHIP INDICATORS LI-1. Channels platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed  provide web link, if available  Information regarding all products is available in the Brand section of our website  https   www.hul. co.in brands  . Consumers can also reach out to us via one of the following modes for any additional information   Toll-free number for Levercare  1800-102-2221  WhatsApp number   91 8291082913  E-mail ID  lever.ca re unilever.com  Address  PO Box 14760, Mumbai 400 099, Maharashtra, India  Contact Us form on the website  https   www.hul .co.in contact  LI-2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and or services. We provide information on our product packaging, including ingredients, expiry date, and usage directions, as appropriate to inform our consumers about safe and responsible usage. Consumers can also contact us on our Levercare toll-free number  1800-102-2221  and via our e-mail ID   lever.care unilever.com   printed on each product label. Our website has a dedicated section where consumers can reach us through the Contact Us form and a dedicated section on What is in Our Products   https    www.hul.co.in our-company rd-innovation safety- environment whats-in-our-products    is hosted to inform consumers about our products and the ingredients. LI-3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption  discontinuation of essential services. At HUL, we do not deal with any essential services. However, in case of any disruption, we can disseminate information through our website, various mass media platforms, social media platforms, distribution networks, sales representatives, and e-mails. In addition, consumers can contact us on our toll-free number for Levercare  1800-102-2221  and e-mail id   lever.care unilever.com  , printed on each product. LI-4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws  yes  no not applicable   If yes, provide details in brief. We are fully committed to not only ensuring compliance to mandatory labelling, but also to providing important information to consumers regarding safety, health, proper usage and appropriate precautions. These are embedded in the Trust   Transparency pillar of our ESG strategy. For example, on Foods, HUL provides transparent nutrition information of its products to empower consumers to make informed choices. In addition to the mandatory nutritional labelling requirements as per regulations, we also provide Front-of-pack  FOP  icon showing energy content as % contribution to the Recommended Dietary Allowance  RDA  and as an absolute quantity. For home care products, e.g., our laundry pods, we provide safety precautions, symbols, and usage directions in text and pictures, along with warnings  e.g., Keep out of the reach of children  to ensure consumers are aware of proper product usage and application. Similarly, we provide usage instructions and cautionary statements for Beauty   personal care products. For example, on our hair serum label, we give the ideal usage directions for maximum benefit, precautions to be taken, and immediate action in case of an issue. In addition, all products contain information on the product benefits and any special ingredients delivering the benefits. This information helps consumers make an informed choice. LI-4. Did your entity carry out any survey with regard to consumer satisfaction relating to the major products services of the entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole  yes no   Our Levercare team  also known as Consumer Engagement Centre  provides a comprehensive omnichannel  Phone, e-mail, social media, WhatsApp, and Web  system to help answer product-related queries and complaints to deliver best-in-class consumer experience. We monitor consumer sentiments  i.e., the digital voice of the consumer via social media and brand pages  to receive overall feedback on issue resolution and products services and calculate the Net Promoter Score  0 to 10 . We then evaluate consumer experiences 76 HINDUSTAN UNILEVER LIMITED on both product and service based on how likely they are to recommend the product and the service to family and friends on a scale of 0 to 10. Additionally, to capture feedback from e-Commerce consumers, we use digitally enabled consumer-focussed capability, which provides specific insights based on ratings and reviews at brand and product levels that help identify product improvements and feed into innovations. This also helps improve end-to-end consumer experience on e-Commerce and social media. Furthermore, we conduct a Customer Voice Survey annually to assess overall performance and sentiment among distributors and customers. The survey covers Overall Experience, Customer Service, Finance, Supply Chain, and IT Support. We also have a customer license activity, where each employee is responsible for working in the market, visiting the re-stockist point, collecting customer feedback, and understanding their concerns. We also have a Customer Delight Officer based in branches with a pivotal role in addressing customer grievances and ensuring compliance. These executives diligently promote a customer-centric approach within the organisation. They engage with customers regularly, exchanging feedback to drive continuous improvement in satisfaction levels. This structured methodology, involving employees and dedicated teams, reflects a robust commitment to customer-centricity. 77 INTEGRATED REPORT 2024-25